W1B-BK01
DRAFT LETTER TO COMPANIES AND INSURERS
Dear Sirs,
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS
The following regulations apply when a company/insurer agrees to pay the hospital bills of individuals:
1. A <-/Deposit> must be paid immediately equal to an estimated one month's turnover. The amount of the deposit to be reviewed quarterly.
2. Payment of all bills submitted to be made within 30 days of the invoice date - if not, outstanding balance will attract interest on a daily basis until payment is received at a rate equal to Barclays Bank Base Rate plus 2%.
3. If payment of the hospital bills is not received within the above terms, the Hospital reserves the right to suspend any further treatment until the account is brought up to date, or even to terminate this arrangement without notice.
4. For any other reason the Hospital may terminate this arrangement with three months' notice.
Would you kindly sign the enclosed copy of this letter as your agreement to the above conditions.
INSURERS
At the same time we would appreciate receiving a list of all persons who are eligible for medical treatment under this arrangement.
COMPANIES
Would you please ensure that each time you send an employee to the hospital, he/she has a letter of authorisation from your <-/goodselves>.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK02
Dear Sir,
NSSF WITHDRAWAL / AGE BENEFITS
At this time of the year many organisations are making arrangements for end of year staff parties some of which will include retirement ceremonies.
If your organization is among those planning such staff events then perhaps the following should be of interest to you.
As much as possible the Fund would like to prepare and pay either Withdrawal Benefits (for staff retiring at 50) or Old Age Benefits (for any staff retiring at 60 years or above) during the staff retirement ceremonies. Ideally an officer of the Fund should be present to handover such benefit cheques so that he can also clarify any possible misunderstanding regarding the computation of the respective claims etc.
If such an arrangement is acceptable to you, we would like you to get in touch with the nearest NSSF Branch office where you will be provided with appropriate forms for completion by the prospective beneficiaries i.e those due for retirement by or before 31st December, 1995, have will have attained the age of 50 and above by that date and have no plans for immediate re-employment.
Further clarification may be obtained by calling the undersigned on No. <number/> Nairobi.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK03
Re: <name/>
I am glad to take this chance to thank you for the <-/assistnce> you have been giving to young men and women in the area of job opportunities.
It is in this regard that I kindly ask you to consider the above mentioned young man to secure any kind of job however temporary.
Thank you.
<name/>
W1B-BK04
Dear Sir,
Industrial Attachment for <name/>
The above named is our student taking a three (3) year craft course in Marketing. The course demands two industrial attachments of four and a half (41/2) months each. He is looking forward to his second such attachment. He has shown interest in your firm. We are writing to kindly request you to assist him accordingly.
He should be attached to Marketing and/or Sales Department or in any other Sales promotion activity.
Thank you.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK05
Dear Sirs,
A NEW INTRODUCTORY TRAINING FOR RETIREMENT BENEFIT FUND TRUSTEES AND OTHER INVOLVED IN SUCH WORKS
<name/> (Kenya) the Worldwide actuaries and Consultants have successfully conducted a number of Seminars in the past on the role of Fund Trustees.
Some Trustees and other Staff involved in the operations of your Fund may have already attended these Seminars.
Should others wish to participate, <name/> have informed us that the next Trustee Seminar, is to be held on 20th June 1995.
If you are interested please contact <name/> <address/> <telephone number/> for more information.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK06
Dear Sir,
RE: FUNERAL AND BURIAL EXPENSES ON DEATH OF AN EMPLOYEE:
We are contemplating to review our current policy on the above subject and shall be grateful if you would please arrange to furnish us with your policy and/or procedures pertaining the above for comparison and guidance purposes.
You are, however, assured that any information provided by you in this respect shall be treated with the strictest confidence and shall not be revealed to any third party whatsoever.
You early response to this letter shall be highly appreciated.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK07
Dear Sir,
RE: STAFF MEDICAL SCHEME
We are presently in the process of setting up a suitable Medical Scheme for our employees. In order to carry out this exercise successfully, we have found necessary to first carry out surveys of staff Medical Schemes and proposals administered by firms, both public and private, of comparable size with the Kenya Meat commission in terms of turnover and employee complement.
We would therefore be most grateful if you would kindly let us have information on the type of Medical Scheme you administer for your employees. We wish to assure you that any information provided will be treated with utmost confidentiality.
Yours faithfully
<name/>
W1B-BK08
Dear Sir,
RE: SECOND MOMBASA & COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
By your letter MCS2/WW/4/(90) dated 27th November, 1995, you made an offer to SOGEA for the award of the above Contract, subject to a number of conditions. One such condition was that the "clarifications" regarding contractual provisions which were in the tender would be subject to discussion, and the Employer's decision on these clarifications would be binding.
We have had a meeting with the Contractor on these clarifications, and enclose a copy of the minutes of the meeting and a copy of the clarifications in the tender. You will note that out of 13 items, the Contractor agreed to drop all but four of them.
These remaining items are in areas where we recommend that amendment of the terms of the Contract would be both equitable and appropriate. These changes would have the following effects:
i) variations which would result in exceeding the Contract Price by more than 10% would have the prior concurrence of the World Bank (this would avoid problems with subsequent processing payments),
ii) instead of retention money being held, the Contractor would provide a bank guarantee,
iii) the Advance Payment would be paid with 56 days of signing of the Contract and provision by the Contractor of the performance and advance payment securities, and
iv) comments on the draft final valuation of the Works submitted by the Contractor to be given within 28 days.
We therefore enclose herewith a draft letter to the Contractor, which you may issue if you concur with our recommendations.
It may be pointed out that the Contract will only come into effect once the Contractor accepts the offer of the award. The Contractor cannot do so until the clarifications are ruled upon.
We would therefore urge that this matter be given your most expeditious attention.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK09
Dear Mr <name/>,
Kindly receive the enclose form for application for telephone as indicated for Mr.<name/>.
Kindly assist as per our discussion. In case of any thing please let me know as the gentleman is so <-/desparate> and was told by Mr.<name/> that you are the only person to assist.
With many thanks and wish you all the best for the X-mas and the New Year.
Regards
<name/>
W1B-BK10
Dear Sirs,
RE: PRELIMINARY SITE INVESTIGATIONS FOR THE PROPOSED CEMENT GRINDING PLANT NEAR NAIROBI
Please find here attached the terms of reference for the preliminary site investigation for the proposed project. You are requested to study the document and make your proposal to the employer to be submitted before 14.02.96 mid-day.
The final results of the survey shall be submitted to the employer by 15.03.96. Before the final report the consultant shall also submit any part of the results that maybe ready.
Your proposal should entail the following information;
(i) A brief statement of how you intend to accomplish the required investigations within the expected time. No. of trial pits expected to be made on each site for the soil studies.
(ii) A statement of the entire cost of the investigations. Cost of aerial photographs to be given to the employer for information only.
(ii) References of any similar investigations completed within the last 5 years shall be required. The name of client and project to be included.
The consultant shall not commence on the work until an approval is given by the employer.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK11
Dear Sirs,
RE: TRANS-NATIONAL PLAZA VEHICLE PASS
Following change of name of our building from Silopark House to Trans-National Plaza, we are pleased to introduce and issue you with the new Trans-National Plaza car park pass.
You will have noticed that we recently <-/errected> barriers at the entrance to and the exit from the car park area. This was done with a view to enhancing control and security of vehicles parked here.
This pass is to further enhance that control. You are therefore requested to ensure it is clearly displayed on the windscreen of your vehicle(s) as the guards are under strict instructions not to allow into the car park area any vehicle that does not display this pass.
Your co-operation will be much appreciated.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK12
RE: INSURANCE INSTITUTE SQUASH KNOCK-OUT 1ST TO 24TH SEPTEMBER 1993
Please note that the Insurance Institute Squash Knock-out will be held from Wednesday 1st September 1993 to Friday 24th September 1993 at Parklands Sports Club. This year's event has again been kindly sponsored by the British American Insurance Company.
There will be a break from the 13th September to 18th September to allow participation in the Seniors Tournament at Nairobi Club.
For the team event we will follow the same format as last year with 4 participants per team and the entry fee remains at Shs. 1,000/- per team.
For the Individual Knock-out we will accept entries from anyone employed in the Insurance Industry. The entry fee will be Shs. 100/- per person and is payable in addition to the team fee if the company fields a team at the same time.
The difference this year is that companies unable to raise a team can nonetheless still have their employees participate in the Individual Knock-out.
Co-operation between companies for the purpose of raising a full team is still allowed, and is <-/infact> encouraged. If any help is required in this respect please contact the undersigned.
Asif Chaudry will as usual be co-ordinating the event and can be reached on Telephone No. ...
Please submit your entries and cheque for both the Team and Individual Tournaments to the undersigned by Friday 27th August 1993.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK13
RE: SECOND MOMBASA & COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Civil Works Tender No. <number/>
Amendments to Conditions of Contract
Further to our letter MCS2/WW/4(90) dated 27th November 1995, the "clarifications" to your tender have been reviewed by us and your discussions with the Engineer on 14th December, 1995 taken into account.
We enclose herewith the text of Amendments to Conditions of Contract which set out the extent to which your proposals have been accepted by the Employer. These Amendments shall apply to the prospective Contract.
We now await your early response to our letter of 27th November, 1995.
Your faithfully
<name/>
W1B-BK14
Dear Sir,
RE: SECOND MOMBASA & COASTAL WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING AND REHABILITATION PROJECT

Further to our letter MCS2/WW/4(90) dated 27th November 1995, the "clarifications" to your tender have been reviewed by us and your discussions with the Engineer on 14th December, 1995 taken into account.
We enclose herewith the text of Amendments to Conditions of Contract which set out the extent to which your proposals have been accepted by the Employer. These Amendments shall apply to the prospective Contract.
We now await your early response to our letter of 27th November, 1995.
Your faithfully
<name/>
W1B-BK15
It is reported that you owe the above mentioned ranch a good sum of money which you have not taken steps to clear. This situation has caused untold suffering to the Group Ranch such that the Ranch's financiers are threatening to auction the Group Ranch's properties. The amount being money you were supposed to pay individuals for the digging of a well in the farms of the Ranch members.
Consequently you are required to call in this office on 8th December, 1995 at 10.00 am.
Please attend without failure.
<name/>
W1B-BK16
Dear Sir,
We have the pleasure of introducing ourselves as a company specialising in Pest Control Services.
Our Professional pest control services include use of effective, safe and environmentally-friendly pesticides at very competitive rates.
Among the services offered in pest control are:-
1. Ultra-low-volume (ULV) space spray using a mist generator and thermal fog for flies, cockroaches, mosquitoes and other crawling insects, in a wide variety of premises - including food factories, hotels, mills, bakeries, hospitals, barracks, schools, on board aeroplanes and in the home.
2. <-/Subteranean> termite, woodborer, honey bee and ants, to elimination.
3. Stored products pest control; using the latest concepts in fumigation technology, our fumigants not only kills  insects but also rats, mice and even mites.
We also control beetles and moths of important species by fumigation.
We offer a service of whatever pests are involved in with damage and hygiene .
Take advantage of our FREE SURVEYS and concluding estimates and call us for immediate response.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK17
Dear Sir, 
RE: OFFICE EQUIPMENT SERVICES & <-/STATIONARY> SUPPLY.
We are initially and formally introducing ourselves to you on the above subject. We have a backup technical services  by our highly qualified technical staff who have trained both locally and overseas.
Our wealth of experience in the fields will guarantee and take care of all previous complaints to make you a happy user of your office equipment.
After signing the contract your equipment will be regularly serviced at least <-/thrice> a year automatically without you calling. For undone service , a credit is issued to you for the period which  your machine was not serviced. We also repair and service machines at <-_customers><+_customers'> premises on a per call basis at very reasonable charges.
Our charges for per call-service are:-
1. Electronic calculators - @ Kshs 1000/- per service.
2. Electronic typewriters - @ Kshs 1500/- per service.
3. Computers i.e Monitor, C.P.U, Keyboard, Printer - Kshs 4,500/- per service.
4. Photocopy machines -. @ Kshs 2,000/- per service.
ANNUAL SERVICE CONTRACT - Payable in advance.
1. Electronic calculators - @ Kshs 2,400/- per year.
2. Electronic typewriters - @ Kshs 4,600/- per year.
3. Computers - @ Kshs 14,000/- per year.
4. Photocopy machines - @ Kshs 6,000/- per year.
A breakdown of your office <-_equipments><+_equipment> means a breakdown of your services to your esteemed clients/customers and that is why we are at your service at all time.
We are looking forward to working together .
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK18
Dear Sir/Madam,
Please be informed that we will be closed from Friday, December 22, 1995 and will resume production on Monday, January 2, 1996.
Please check your stock levels of computer stationery and place your orders early to avoid any disappointment.
Please note:
1. Last repeat orders for delivery in December 1995 should be placed by December 8 1995.
2. New Jobs for delivery in December 1995, where artworks are required to be produced, should be placed by December 5, 1995 at the latest.
3. All other orders for delivery in new year can also be placed in this period.
4. Orders received after December 8, 1995 will be ready for delivery after one week of re-opening although we shall <-/endeavor> to complete very urgent jobs before closing for the holidays.
We wish to take this opportunity to thank you for your custom and look forward to continued good business relations.
Best wishes for the coming festive season and a prosperous 1996.
Faithfully yours,
<name/>
W1B-BK19
Dear Sir,
RE: QUOTATION FOR LIQUID CHLORINE
We wish to introduce our firm as a leading manufacture of water treatment chemical  i.e Aluminium Sulphate and Sulphuric Acid.
We are also the sole distributors for Liquid Chlorine manufactured by <-/Panafrican> Paper Mills (E. A) Limited.
Our current customers for Liquid Chlorine are as follows:-
1) Uganda Breweries - Port Bell, Kampala.
2) Nairobi City Council.
3) National Water & Pipeline Corporation, Nairobi.
4) Reckitt & Colman (Ind.) Limited.
5) National Water & Sewerage Corporation, Kampala.
The packing is in 820 kg cylinders or 65 kg cylinders whichever is suitable <-_to><+_for> the respective customer.
Our price for supply and delivery of Liquid Chlorine to your Nairobi factory will be Kshs. 110.00 per kg.
Should you require further clarification please let us know.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK20
Dear Sir/Madam,
TO US QUALITY IS MORE THAN JUST MATERIAL
We would like to introduce ourselves as makers and suppliers of a wide range of uniforms for both domestic and industrial establishments like hotels, factories, hospitals etc.
We also make articles and/or clothes to specifications of the high standard.
These are some of the few quality clothing which we make, Kaunda Suits, Dresses, Blouses, Shirts, Bow Ties, Men Suits, Ties, Table <-/Clothes>, <-/Waist Coats>, Aprons, Overalls, Dust Coats  and many more.
We also undertake such sophisticated jobs as advertising materials, street banners, screen printing logos, T-shirts, flags, embroidery and give away articles. We provide all types of fabrics and colour suitable for your colour combinations.
We look forward to hearing from you to any inquiries  to which we shall be too happy to reply.
For all your enquiries, please call Telephone: 221587, 221879, Fax: 219059, Factory 334220, or write to Bali Fashion P.O. Box 11157 Kumasi Road, Nairobi
Assuring you for our best service always.
Yours Faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK21
Dear Sir,
Dear Sir,Re: Manufacturer of Office and Domestic Furniture
We take this opportunity to introduce ourselves as manufacturers of Office and Domestic Furniture as per your specifications and requirements.
We can assure you of our Quality which is second to none. With the same  we take this opportunity to offer the best services in the Market.
We shall be very pleased to hear from you. If you wish to see us please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned on Tel: 823743 Fax: 220228.
It would be a great pleasure to hear from you, and to serve you.
Hoping that you will MAKE THE RIGHT CHOICE.
Thanking you,
Yours sincerely
<name/>
W1B-BK22
Dear Sir,
RE: LETTER OF INTRODUCTION
We would like to introduce our company to you as stockists and dealers of Industrial and Technical Hardware.
We therefore would request you to include us in the list of your regular suppliers so that we get the opportunity to quote for items required.
Hoping to have a favourable reply from you at your earliest convenience.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK23
Dear Sir/Madam,
We are very pleased to present to you the first edition of the OFFICIAL NATIONAL FAX DIRECTORY. The Publication of this directory is as a result of suggestions and enquiries from our customers and fax users, who wanted a comprehensive, <-/upto> date and reliable fax directory.
We trust you will find it useful.
The Official National Fax Directory is a business to business directory since more than 98% of the faxes are used for business purposes. Therefore, it will be a very ideal medium for reaching and influencing decision makers to think favourably about your organisation and its products/services. Besides the normal free entry, we have designed chargeable optional items for your entries in line with your image and public expectations.
For this directory to be able to serve your needs better, we kindly request you to complete the form on the first page of this directory and mail it back to us including any suggestions for future improvement.
WE WISH YOU A HAPPY 1995
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK24
Dear Sir/Madam,
We have pleasure in introducing ourselves as one of the leading suppliers of Sports <-_Equipments><+_equipment>, Sports Wear and Sports Trophies.
Much care has been taken to include as many items as possible. Should you require any further information, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Assuring you of our best attention at all times and looking forward for your valuable orders.
PLEASE NOTE: We are situated on Moi Avenue, Opposite Barclays Bank, next to Lavarinis Restaurant.
Thanking you.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK25
Dear Sir,
RE: CONSULTANCY SERVICES
On behalf of our company, I am pleased to inform you that we have now started offering an array of services which probably you have been waiting for to solve your needs. These services are as follows:-
NEWS AGENCY - Collecting and collating information of specific interest to your organization for use as Press release or placement in local or international newspapers and magazines.
FEATURES - <-/Compilling> well-researched features which might shed more light <-_to><+_on> the functions and policies of your organization.
PROFILES - In to-day's world clients not only are eager to know more about an Organization's products and services before making their decision whether to buy them, but also the personality of the Organization itself or its top managers with whom they will be doing business with. Beacon Publishers have experts who are well versed in this area.
BACKGROUNDS - <-/Oftentimes> an Organization may desire background information for placement either in a newspaper or magazine. Beacon Publishers gets 'beneath-the-surface' to come up with the relevant background information to meet desired goals.
In addition we would like to let you know that we also carry out other services for our clients and these include typesetting, proof-reading of materials in English and Kiswahili, translation of materials from English to Kiswahili, vice versa.
Writing speeches on any subject for any forum and doing lay-outs for an Organization's magazine, newsletter or newspaper.
Our company is readily available for any client who might desire to retain us on part-time basis carrying out public relations activities.
We know you will be happy to learn also that we carry out all these activities at very reasonable rates, keeping in mind the hard economic time the country is going through.
All you need to do is to let us know what services you require from us, and we shall expeditiously send our representative for business transaction. Going by the old adage, "Time is of the essence", we urge you to contact us at your earliest convenience hence looking forward to hearing from you.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK26
Ref: Introduction of Paging Services.
We would like to introduce ourselves to you with the aim of bringing to your attention the services which we render.
As you maybe aware Paging services limited took over its services from K.P.&T. Corporation and is the company licensed to operate Public paging in Kenya.
You <-/maybe> asking yourself why do we at National Newspaper need to use pagers .
* Emergency: Important information that <-_need><+_needs> to be attended to urgently can be conveyed to you through a pager.
* Cost: It lowers operation costs. You don't have to go back to the office, complete messages are received through the pager.
* Reliability: It is a very reliable and convenient method when on the "move" thus making executive managers and staff more accessible to each other. The system supports thousands of users on a single channel.
* Service and Range: The services are 24 hours and the messages are received within 10 seconds. The pager covers a radius of 60km within Nairobi. We offer the same in Mombasa.
* Expansion: Paging service will soon be able to offer a countrywide service probably before the end of the year.
Our equipment is very efficient, economical, dependable, time saving and backed by the manufactures international reputation for reliability.
That is why we seek an appointment with you to give a demonstration of our product and services.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK27
Dear Sir/Madam,
Re: Your Introduction and Special Invitation to Affordable Convenience & Comfort
We are proud to take this opportunity to introduce you to our recently refurbished hotel and <-_it's><+_its> new facilities. We place great emphasis on providing high-standard hotel accommodation at affordable and very competitive prices. We are conveniently located within Nairobi City Centre at the Globe Cinema roundabout on Muranga Road, with easy access to the majority of business and cultural locations.
We take pride in welcoming you to our comfortable and tastefully furnished 47 ensuite (self-contained) rooms. Our highly trained staff will assist you in <-/anyway> to make your stay with us as pleasurable and as enjoyable as possible. The hotel boasts a well laid out in-door Restaurant and for those who prefer fresh air whilst having a drink or a meal will find  our popular Bustanik Terrace Cafe or the Residents TV Bar the ideal place to relax throughout the day. Our wide-selection menus are specially created by our Chefs to cater for local and international tastes whether it is a quick snack or a full three course meal.
To cater for the needs of the businessman or the private guest we offer telephones in rooms as well as provide fax, secretarial and message-taking facilities. Security is given high priority with a 24hr guarded secure rear car park and should the need arise, safe-deposit facilities are available. We do not charge for Room service and a Taxi service is provided. A Conference facility for up to 50 people is also available, which we offer free of charge to participants who reside within the hotel.
We are happy to offer selective Corporate or Group discounts for reservations made by reputable organizations such as yourselves. You have been specially selected for our unique 3 for 2 OFFER valid in September and October where we are giving you the opportunity to book 2 nights Bed & Breakfast and get a THIRD night absolutely FREE!!!
We take pleasure in inviting a representative of your organization to contact us for a personal tour of our Hotel facilities at your convenience.
We look forward to welcoming you in the near future.
Kind Regards,
<name/>
W1B-BK28
Dear Sir,
REF: INTRODUCTION LETTER
This is to introduce our firm, Central Renovators Company, formerly Furaha Domestic Maintenance Company, to you with a view to find permanent working relations between ourselves.
We have been in operation since January, 1980, and we specialise in the following:-
Building, Tarmacking, Tree Felling, Floor Sanding, Painting, Fencing, Electrical Repairs, Burglar Alarms, Car Alarms and General Home repairs.
We undertake the above jobs at Nairobi and outside as well. We are qualified men who are always ready to undertake any size of job at short notice. why don't you try us?
Contact Central Renovators Company for super service.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK29
Dear Sir,
RE: CORPORATE RATES 1996
We wish to extend our sincere appreciation for your support in the past and look forward to your continued patronage during 1996.
We are pleased to inform you that we will continue to offer all guests booked by your company special corporate rates which will be as follows with effect from 1st January 1996:
Single or Double Occupancy USD 114.20
Businessman's Suite USD 197.00
The above net rates which we trust you will find reasonable are for room only and are subject to additional Statutory Government Taxes which currently are 15% V. A. T, 10% Service Charge and 2% Training Levy.
For your information, our normal 1966 net room rates are
Single: USD 165.00
Double: USD 195.00
Businessman's Suite: USD 250.00
Bateleur Suite: USD 330.00
State Suite: USD 430.00
As you might be aware, Nairobi Serena Hotel was recently presented with "The Best Town Hotel in Kenya" award, and we intend to continue being the leading hotel in this part of the world.
We will in addition to our newly refurbished bedrooms and bedroom corridors, continue to offer your guests the following:
* Express check-in and check-out
* Use of Maisha Health and Fitness Centre on <-/complimentary> basis excluding special treatment.
* Offer of daily local newspapers.
* Free use of golf facilities at the Nairobi Royal Golf Club.
* Fully equipped Business Centre.
Please note that we will also continue to offer your guests 15% discount on normal Published Rates at Serena Beach Hotel, Mara Serena Lodge, Amboseli Serena Lodge and Samburu Serena Lodge.
We once again, thank you very much for your support and we look forward to even more strengthened  mutual business relations in future.
Assuring you of our continued best personalized standards of service and attention at all times. We remain,
With best regards.
W1B-BK30
Dear Sir,
RE: THE IDEAL SECRETARY SKILLS DEVELOPMENT COURSE, NOVEMBER
The secretary of the 90s is faced with a variety of challenges due to the emerging competition and complexities in a liberalized market. The secretary of the 90s therefore needs more skills over and above typing and shorthand skills for increased peak performance.
We are pleased to inform you that we have developed a new course for the ideal secretary of the 90s. The main objective of this course is to equip the secretary with  knowledge, skills and positive attitude vital to  effective performance of her duties. We have attached the course details for your review .
Venue: Silver Springs Hotel, Nairobi
Dates: 20-24 November, 1995
Fees: Kshs 12,500/- this fee covers training, training materials, certificates, group photographs, lunches and refreshments.
Please nominate by filling the form below.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK31
Dear Sirs,
We would like to thank you for your kind patronage, which has enabled us to grow this far.
However, to provide you with even better service, we have embarked on a "Customer Service Improvement Program" for which, we kindly request you for two minutes of your time to fill the attached <-/questionaire>.
Enclosed, is a self-addressed stamped envelope, through which you could return the completed <-/questionaire> to ourselves, or alternatively, we could arrange to collect the same from your premises.
Please feel free to include any comments you might deem necessary for the improvement of our customers service.
We also wish to take this opportunity to notify you, that we stock a wide range of Office Equipment including Typewriters Personal Computers and their accessories, and invite any inquiries related therefrom.
Your co-operation is greatly appreciated.
Yours Faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK32
Dear Sir,
QUALITY GUARANTEED SUPPLIES
Perhaps you are not aware of this firm which does specialize on quality guaranteed supplies to those who matter as you. With the writer having over 18 years experience in the same field you are further advantaged as the supplies you expect to have will definitely conform to your needs. These are:-
A. Drawing office material and accessories for draughtsmen's office.
Surveying gadgets such as:-
- Standard Ranging Rods/Steel
- Jointed. Ranging Rods/Steel
- Pins (set of 10 pieces)
- Books mm Tracing and drawing collimation, Rise and Fall, <-/Tacheometer>, Field and Sectional.
- Light Tables 36"X30" size
- Tally Counters (4 digits)
- Quality Office Stationery
B. Surveying instruments of SOKKIA brand formerly known as SOKKISHA.
<-/Soiltest> materials Testing Equipment (Wykeham Farrance U.K.)
Meteorological Equipment and gadgets, Sunshine cards, charts, fibre tipped pens etc.
Rain Gauges 127mm dia. Rain Gauge measurer (glass) Charts (various types)
C. Repairing of surveying instruments, plan printing machines, Drawing Boards and Laboratory <-/Equipments>.
Please contact us for further information and pricing. We are at your service and remain your Business Partner to Your Satisfaction.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK33
Dear Sir/Madam,
RE: INTRODUCTION
We wish to introduce ourselves to your esteemed Organisation in view of doing Business together for the <-/matual> benefit of our two Companies.
DEADLINE GRAPHICS MEDIA is a medium sized Company wholly owned and managed by indigenous Kenyans and specialises in Printing, Commercial Artwork, Design Graphics, Screen printing & Stationery supply.
Some of our Clients are: The Kenya Institute of Management, The Bridges Group of Companies, Group Air France, Sepso Ltd, Bruce Safaris, Kenya Women Finance Trust, Naz Car Hire and The Kenya Growth Fund Limited among others.
We would appreciate  if you could recommend us to <-/any one> needing Business cards for a start.
We would be glad to visit your Offices if need arises.
Enclosed samples of work we have done .
We look forward to the pleasure of doing Business with you while we share the Task of Building our Nation.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK34
Dear Customer,
RE: OFFICE, FACTORY AND DOMESTIC MAINTENANCE.
We wish to take this chance to introduce to you our Company. It is a CLEANING, PEST CONTROL AND <-/LAND SCAPING> Company. Yes, it is but with a difference.
It is a general knowledge how expensive things are nowadays; carpets, curtains and upholstery are on the fore front. If you maintain yours in good condition, your expenses are down. That is exactly what we want to do; make them last longer by using the right <-/technics>, machines and chemicals.
Pests are health <-/hassard>, expensive, risky and nuisance. We want to eliminate them completely safely and within the shortest time possible.
Your compound is a show case of your life, well kept lawns, trimmed hedges etc will tell a lot about you to your visitors. Besides, they will be beautiful before your eyes. We are determined to give them a real face lift.
Our staff are very specialized, mature and dependable. We very much appreciate the fact that your satisfaction is our achievement.
Now that you are <-/concious> of the above facts, we are certain that you will try us for the below listed services. You will never regret and remember that our services are "OF COURSE WITH A SMILE".
(a) Carpet cleaning, shampooing and deodorising.
(b) Supply and fitting of carpets and curtains.
(c) Upholstery cleaning including sofas, office chairs and car interior including seats.
(d) Terrazo, PVC tiles and wooden parquet floor cleaning, sanding and polishing.
(e) Window cleaning; including highrise buildings.
(f) Interior design; including supply and maintenance of flowers and plants.
(g) Lawn mowing and hedge trimming.
(h) <-/Land scaping>.
(i) Pest control and fumigation.
Thanking you in anticipation.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK35
Dear Madam,
RE: CLEANING SERVICES
We wish to introduce ourselves to your Organization with a view to establishing good and fruitful business relations. We are a firm of professional cleaners specializing in the following:
1. General, office and window cleaning.
2. Carpet cleaning and floor polishing.
3. Carpets and curtains suppliers, etc.
Our professional cleaning services are of a very high standard with practical experience of several years in this line of business. Currently, we offer cleaning services to the following organizations:
1. I.C.D.C. - Uchumi House and Kimathi House.
2. Organization of African Unity (O.A.U.) - Nairobi Regional Office.
3. Esso Kenya Limited.
4. Unga Limited.
5. Union Bank of Kenya Limited.
6. Mathu & Gichuiri Associates.
7. M/s Kilonzo & Co., Advocates.
8. Icrisat, etc.
Our rates are very competitive and, to mention only a few examples, we charge KShs. 3/= per square foot for carpet shampooing and KShs. 3/= per square foot for cleaning PVC tiles and floor polishing. Charges for other cleaning services not mentioned here will be gladly given to you on request.
We can come to your premises and carry out a demonstration at any time convenient to you, and in this connection please get in touch with the undersigned and arrange for the same. In the meantime, we look forward to being of service to you soon.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK36
Dear Sir,
POWERCOM UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SUPPLY FOR COMPUTERS.
We write to introduce our Company to you.
Gates has been in the UPS business for over two years now specializing in power control and protection for sensitive electronic equipment such as Computers, Fax, Modems, Telephone PABX and Lab Equipment.
We have attached copies of brochures and our Duty and VAT Free prices. The prices shown are in US Dollars and cover for delivery within Nairobi. Payment is by cheque drawn out in favour of our suppliers, POWERCOM COMPANY LIMITED.
Delivery - if not Ex-stock - is normally within 3 weeks and following installation, a full 12 month parts and labour manufacturers warranty takes effect and is provided by Gates Systems Ltd. During this period, any damaged components will be replaced Free-of charge. For your convenience, we stock most of the interchangeable parts which we use pending replacement from the manufacturers.
After the warranty period, we offer a comprehensive Maintenance and Customer Support Contract.
We are prepared to discuss our quotation with you and prepare Proforma Invoices should you require one.
Our intention is to provide your organization with a reliable, <-/effecient> and long lasting solution. We believe that the Powercom UPS meets all the above objectives.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK37
REF: WORLD CLASS PRICES FOR WORLD CLASS QUALITY
As informational Technology gets more widely used in your organization, it soon becomes obvious that focused attention on your company's cost of purchasing computer stationery, media (Diskettes, tapes backups, etc) and peripherals can add up to quite a bit.
The reason that this is especially so in East Africa is that accessories are sold to offices by fourth, fifth, even sixth parties. Each party must make some money and, as must happen, the customer foots the bill.
Our prices for computers and accessories are VERY competitive for five important reasons:
* We are a joint venture between a MANUFACTURER in the USA and Kenyans. When you buy from us you bypass retailers, wholesalers, even distributors. We pass the saving to you, the customer.
* Because we bring in goods in bulk, we enjoy excellent shipping rates. Again, we pass the saving to you.
* Our operations are highly computerised, so our overheads are minimal. Yet again, we pass the saving to you.
* All our products carry a one year warranty, supported locally. Any warranty replacement is done promptly.
* We employ 50 qualified members of staff, so our support is solid.
Make us your regular supplier of computers and products, and enjoy world class prices for world class quality.
Best Regards,
<name/>
W1B-BK38
RE: SUPPLY OF OFFICE STATIONERY
We refer to the above and wish to introduce ourselves as one of the Leading, Efficient and Competitively priced suppliers of office stationery.
We carry a wide range of consumable office stationery and being located in the heart of the city centre, we are in a position to expedite your much valued orders quickly and efficiently without any inconvenience to yourselves.
Delivery of office stationary is free of charge.
Attached herewith is an itemised list of office stationary which we feel would be of help to you when placing orders.
Thank you for reading this letter and we look forward to serving you.
For any further details kindly contact the undersigned.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK39
Dear Customer,
We, Distmark Agencies Limited would like to take this opportunity, to introduce ourselves as one of the most experienced firm in Stationery Supplies. We deal in the supply of all office Stationery and of all office Equipment from your very smallest quantity to your largest.
We specialize in all the most Modern Stationery and Office Equipment. "According to your needs and Specifications".
We also supply CALCULATORS, OFFICE FURNITURE, ALL SPECIAL AND GENERAL STATIONERY.
We also undertake all Printing Orders, Screen Printing, and making of Rubber Stamps. We are Certain you will find our prices most competitive.
So why not take a step forward and call us, to help you have the most Efficient and Modern Office and in so doing you will be able to cope with the problems of Today and Tomorrow.
Please do not hesitate to give us a ring, as we await for your esteemed order.
Thank you.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK40
RE: KOLPING GUEST HOUSE IN NAIROBI
Since October 1991, our Kolping Guest House has been under renovations and decorations to enable us provide better services to our customers. Since then we have been operating below <-_the> capacity.
I am pleased now to announce that the renovations are complete and we are back to our normal capacity.
Currently, our rates are as follows:-
1. Bed and Breakfast Kshs.230
2. Half Board Kshs.320
3. Full Board Kshs.385
Drinks are also available on customers request . We also provide laundry services to our customers. Transport to and from the Jomo Kenyatta Airport may also be arranged at Kshs.400/-.
Please through you, we would like to make Kolping House - Nairobi known to visitors from within and externally.
For further information, please contact the Guest House Mistress on telephone number 562575 Nairobi.
Looking forward to receive  you at our KOLPING HOUSE NAIROBI.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK41
Any organization involved in development work needs electric power.
Usually, these activities are carried on in remote, rural areas where there is no access to the mains grid.
Kenital Ltd. has been supplying and servicing over 2,000 solar systems in the Eastern African region over the past 10 years.
Solar is a clean, reliable and durable technology. Although it requires a high capital investment, this will pay off in 5-7 years due to a next-to-zero maintenance and running costs.
For developing projects, not only the very low maintenance and running costs but also the very easy to function features of these systems (actually, they hardly need any human intervention) makes solar technology the most suitable, since they also avoid burdening the local community with future problems and expenses to get fuel, spare parts, etc..., and keep them serviced for as long as over 25 years (expected lifespan of our system).
If you already have a generator, a hybrid system (solar plus generator) will dramatically reduce the generator running time (<-/tipically> to 1-2 hours per day).
We will be pleased to meet with you for further discussion on the most suitable systems to meet your specific needs on lighting, refrigeration, hot water, water pumping and communication (radio-transmitters).
Please, do not hesitate to contact us for any enquiry or further information you might need on our solar system.
Looking forward to hearing from you soon.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK42
Dear Sir, 
RE: APPLICATION FOR CLEARING AND FORWARDING.
We would like to take this opportunity to introduce our company to your mission with a view to solicit  for business.
Our services as a freight company <-_includes><+_include> clearing and forwarding through the Post Office, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi, Mombasa's Kilindini port, ICD Embakasi, packing and removals of bulk and fragile items etc.
We have capable personnel and established fully operational offices both in Nairobi and Mombasa.
We have attached herewith our current quotations for your <-/persual>.
Further negotiations on these rates are no means <-/exhaustable> as this normally is determined (in the final analysis by the volume of the work e.g. the more work, the less the charges.)
We sincerely hope you will give us a chance to be of service to you and on our part all possible will be done to ensure you receive our maximum support.
If there is any further information or assistance you may require to arrive at a favourable decision, we would be more than happy to <-_advice><+_advise> accordingly.
Thanking you in advance.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK43
Dear Sir/Madam,
RE: SECURITY AND ALLIED SERVICES
You may have received our letter/Circular in the recent past or during the last twelve months, but to refresh your mind, we are dealers in SECURITY SERVICES (day and night Guards, Repossession, Private Escorts, Process Services, Private Investigations, Automatic sensors and alarms, debt-collection, etc). We provide such services to a number of Office Buildings, factories/godowns, Financial Institutions, Hospitals, V.I.P. Homes, Residential Estates, Showrooms/Garages, Schools Co-operative Societies, Churches, Hotels, etc.
We have two decades relevant experience  in Commercial security. We are Kenyans of unquestionable loyalty. Our guards are selected from men of good morals , training and discharge.
They are smartly uniformed and appropriately equipped. Our directors and managers concentrate on this Company only to ensure instant service and prompt attendance to clients as well as keeping personal touch .
You may wish to try us for  one of the advantages we have over several competitors e.g.. Reliability, Affordability, individual attention, security, geographical distribution, etc. Our offer to you now is at K.Shs. 3,500/- per month per guard (monthly/contract basis) or KShs 180/- per guard per month 12 hours shift (daily/<-_temporarily><+_temporary> basis)
We should be grateful to hear from you or be of service to you now or in the near future. Please call or write to us.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK44
Dear Sir/Madam,
RE: INTRODUCING A NEW CONCEPT IN SOURCING GOODS AND SERVICES
THE FAST TRACK TO SUCCESS FOR PROFESSIONAL ASTUTE BUYERS
 Liberalisation of the Kenyan economy is the best thing that happened to Kenya in 1994. So most people say. It has brought opportunities to individuals, companies, institutions and organizations a chance to source goods and services competitively.
It has also opened the same companies and organizations to a very competitive market environment. A saving of whatever nature or kind is now very vital to those keen on succeeding and attain  growth.
Those running companies, institutions or organizations are working out strategies in the face of an uncertain economy, intensified competition, changing consumer attitudes, shifting fiscal policies, expensive and scarce financial resources, corruption, etc. Today's market place creates unprecedented opportunities for astute buyers who are able to act now and survive.
Some people believe the best way to keep up with the challenge and competition is to go with the system everyone else has. Others think that just keeping up isn't good enough. They are looking for ways to get ahead and are rethinking the conventional way of doing business directly with established dealerships whose level of discounting is based on volume and must be requested. New devices are being sought.
TECO COMMODITIES are trading agents. We seek the best prices for our clients from competing local companies or dealerships of well-known Japanese, European, American, Asian and Kenyan Commodity brands. We obtain the best quotations possible for approval by our clients.
Clients are invoiced, through us, directly by the suppliers. Payment is made either direct to the suppliers or through us. No fee is paid to us by clients. A minimal service charge is paid to us by the suppliers upon conclusion of a sale.
Our clients include NGOs. Donor agencies, Institutions, Companies and individuals. Due to many clients , our purchase volume for any commodity is high with our suppliers. Consequently, our bargaining power is unmatched and our clients enjoy the best discounts possible even when one item is required.
We are not bound or limited to any commodity, brand name or supplier. We deal in motor vehicles (only new), motorcycles, machinery and equipment, standby generators, computers, office supplies, bulk chemicals, bulk lubricants and fuels, etc.
I have enclosed herewith a 'Requirement Indicator Form" for convenience in responding. Kindly fill in details of your requirements and fax or mail to us.
Try us for our unmatched bargaining power and efficiency in delivery. You will be amazed.
We will enable you take advantage of an advantage that is yours.
Kind regards.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK45
Dear Madam,
RE: REFURBISHMENT ANNOUNCEMENT - SIXEIGHTY HOTEL:
Sixeighty Hotel is proud to announce the completion of guest bedrooms Refurbishment Programme.
The Refurbishment Programme has compromised the following:-
1. DELUXE ROOMS:
The creation of thirty (30) Deluxe Rooms on the 9th floor - refurbished to the highest degree of comfort and <-/equiped> with room TVs and electronic room safe .
2. EXECUTIVE SUITES:
The creation of two (2) Executive Suites on the 9th floor - containing a bedroom and a lounge, a balcony, a minibar, two (2) TVs and an electronic room safe.
3. STANDARD ROOMS:
The remaining 310 rooms have received an elaborate refurbish, wall to wall carpeting, colourful floor tiles, modern curtaining and bed covers, improved lighting with TV options.
NOTE: A new carpet has been laid covering all the guest floors.
4. CASINO:
A Casino being constructed in the hotel building is expected to be in operation by September, 1995 to give our guests an added amenity.
OUR AIM IS TO OFFER OUR GUESTS A MORE RELAXED STAY IN AN IMPROVED PRODUCT VIS-A-VIS OUR CENTRAL LOCATION IN THE CITY CENTRE OF NAIROBI:
Please contact the undersigned for Contract Rates for 1996 on fax 254-2-332-908.
<name/>
W1B-BK46
Dear Madam,
Set up by an Act of Parliament in 1956, the Kenya Society for the Blind is responsible for developing eye care services and programmes to help educate blind children and rehabilitate blind adults throughout Kenya.
During the past year KSB has continued to provide eye treatment and surgery to more than 400,000 men, women and children through our mobile units and hospital clinics. In addition, an increasing number of blind children are being supported in their schools and our rehabilitation staff have helped many blind adults to become self reliant once again.
In the coming year KSB is committed to developing a number of new projects in <-_a> addition to continuing to fund and run its current projects. Many new blind people are relying on this commitment.
I am writing to invite you to become a Life member for a minimum subscription of KSh. 3,000 and help further this noble work.
PLEASE <-/ENROLL> AS A MEMBER TODAY.
I enclose our brochure which further describes the work and achievements of Kenya Society for the Blind and hope that you will find it of interest.
Together you and Kenya Society for the Blind will save the sight of many little children and help blind parents to provide for their families in the coming year.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK47
Dear Sir/Madam,
Re: Invitation to the Nairobi City Convention (Observer Status)
"The Nairobi We Want - Towards an Action Plan for a Better Nairobi", City Hall Nairobi, 27-29 July, 1993.
The Nairobi City Council is calling for a Nairobi City Convention between 27 and 29 July to openly reflect on ways and means of building a better Nairobi for the benefit of all residents and visitors.
The Nairobi City Convention will not just be another conference or congress sharing ideas and suggestions from selected experts but will act as an open forum for representatives of all Nairobi communities and interested groups representing the Nairobians of all walks of life. This open forum will give all participants a chance to present their experiences, queries, suggestions and proposals to jointly build a better Nairobi.
The City Convention will take place at the Charter Hall, opening at 9.00 a.m. on Tuesday, July the 27th and ending on Thursday, 29th July 1993. The Key Note speech will be presented by none other than Mr. Steve O'Brian, the Chief of Mission of the World Bank. After plenary sessions during the first day, the convention will break into 17 topical Working Groups for detailed discussions. During the third day all Working Groups will present their findings and suggestions which will eventually lay the foundation for the Nairobi Action Plan.
The Nairobi Action Plan will comprise of all relevant sectors and topics related to the future development of the "City in the Sun" and will be compiled on the basis of the Working Group proceedings by a team of experienced Nairobians.
I would most cordially wish to invite you to come as an observer to witness and contribute to this very important event which is meant to shape a better future of our city for us and future generations.
Please hand in your registration slip together with the completed questionnaire to the registration officer at the entrance to the Charter Hall (City Hall Way) between 12 and 16 July 1993.
Looking forward to meeting you.
<name/>
W1B-BK48
Dear Sir,
As you may be aware, the Port Management Association of Eastern and Southern Africa was established in 1973 under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, following a recommendation made by the Conference of Ministers responsible for transport in Africa, at a meeting held in Tunis in 1971.
Currently, it has fourteen full members, namely:
Comores
Djibouti
Ethiopia
Kenya
Madagascar
Malawi
Mauritius
Mozambique
Seychelles
Somalia
Sudan
Tanzania
Zambia and
Zimbabwe
Its main objectives are, inter alia, to promote, co-ordinate and standardize port operations and services with a view to increasing port efficiency at the national and regional levels and to provide a forum where all members can address and find solutions to common problems facing African ports.
I assumed duty as full-time Secretary General of the Association at its Secretariat in Mombasa on 7th January, 1993.
The Association is in the process of establishing a data bank at its Secretariat, which will assist all the member ports in:
- Providing port information to all users and other organizations
- Co-ordinating sub-regional efforts in provision of improved traffic flow
- Carrying out studies and research
- Creating expertise in member ports for the collection and analysis of data for the operational needs of the port.
Our Association has obtained technical assistance from the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa in the preparation of a proposal for this project. A copy of the document prepared by that Organization is enclosed for your information. The total project, according to E.C.A.'s experts, is expected to cost US$115,000. Details of the expenditure to be incurred are given at page six of the report.
We would be delighted if this project could attract your interest as it would be of tremendous benefit to countries in the region. We are hereby making an appeal to your Organization to consider the possibility of offering PMAESA assistance, in any form, in implementing the project. The project is subject to changes you might wish to suggest or modifications you may consider necessary.
We hope our request will be favourable considered and look forward to hearing from you very soon.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK49
Dear Sir,
REF: LANGUAGE, CROSSCULTURAL ORIENTATIONAL COURSES, AND CROSSCULTURAL TOURS:
Kingozi-Interchange is a language and crosscultural trainers institute, trainers and consultants on the same . We are organisers of rural and urban homestays (living with African families for a stint of time), crosscultural tours and workcamps.
PROJECT PROFILE:
Background:
"Kingozi" in itself was one of the original Kiswahili dialects spoken down the Kenyan Coast by the "Wangozi" people. Kingozi-Interchange extracts its title from this historical phenomenon. It is a limited liability company registered under the companies Act and came into operation in September, 1984.
Objective:
Kingozi-Interchange is committed to the teaching of various ethnic languages Kiswahili as our national language and several foreign languages. All these are aimed at  acquisition of <-/abled> and effective communication skills. Culture, being an integral part of language is incorporated in these courses for adaptation purposes. In these crosscultural courses, we also organise <-_and> urban homestays (living with African families for a short period to enable one understand our ways of life in a real perspective). We conduct crosscultural tours for our customers to rural areas in order to afford our clients a chance to inspect some of the <-/indegenous> projects initiated by the local people. Same for workcamp .
1. INTRODUCTION.
A. WHAT IS KINGOZI?
Kingozi was one of the original dialects of the present day Kiswahili. Kingozi-Interchange derives its name from this historical background.
B. KINGOZI-INTERCHANGE PHYLOSOPHY:
Kingozi-Interchange is dedicated to promoting the learning of languages and cultures of the Kenyan people.
2. SERVICES PROVIDED:
i. LANGUAGE TRAINING:
Kingozi-Interchange provides small class <-_instructions><+_instruction> in various local languages, Kiswahili and several European languages. Instructions cover  the following areas:- conversational skills, grammar, sentence structure, listening tapes and translation.
ii. CROSS-CULTURE:
Kingozi-Interchange promotes intercultural learning to outgoing Africans and in-coming expatriates, volunteers, missionaries, tourists through innovative group discussion, excursions, homestays lectures (facilities by Kenyan educators from the University of Nairobi and other educational institutions) and fields trips. The Nairobi-based institute utilizes the impressive human resources of rural and urban Kenya to address issues of social and cultural development. Crosscultural sessions cover:- transition process, entry skill, adoptation skills, political, economic, social and religious background. Our goal is the enhancement of goodwill, the fostering of better working relationships and the enrichment of friendship between people of Kenya and visitors from other countries, especially those who will be working for a period of time in Kenya and with Kenyans.
iii. TRANSLATION:
The Institute works with domestic non-governmental organisations (embassies, missionaries, private voluntary organisations, agencies of the United Nations etc.) to develop educational materials in a variety of local dialects.
3. LANGUAGES OFFERED:
(a). National: -Kiswahili
(b). Local:-	(i). Kipsigis	(ii). Kikuyu	(iii). Dholuo	(iv). Masaai
  	(v). Luhya	(vi). Kikamba	(vii). Turkana	(viii). Pokot
  	(ix). Borona	(x). Meru	(xi).Somali	(xii). Ekegusii
  	(xiii). Marakwet.
NB: Other local languages are offered by prior arrangements.
(c).Foreign Languages:- (i). French (ii) German (iii) Spanish (iv) English
NB: Other foreign languages are offered by prior <-_arrangements><+_arrangement>
4. TEACHING METHODS:
a. Direct Method - (H.I.L.T.). High Intensive Language Technique
(b). C.L.L. - Community Language Learning
(c). S.W. - Silent Way
(d). T.P.R. - Total physical Responses
(e). A.L.P.&T. - Adult Learning Principles and Theory.
(f). Tapes - Taped lesson for use at home or while driving.
5. CROSS-CULTURE:
25 one- hour sessions in cross-culture are offered.
(a). Transition Process:- Learners will reflect on the culture they are leaving, dealing with unfinished personal concerns or business, and develop a strategy for learning about the new culture they are entering.
(b). Entry skills:- Students will develop the skills needed to enter another culture including skills in observation, listening, self reflection, coping and <-_adopting><+_adapting>, dealing with ambiguity, flexibility, recognising and identifying, and dealing with patterns of behaviour within the culture.
(c). Political, social and Religious Context: Students will learn about current (and historical), political, social, and religious systems which affect the society and culture they are entering.
6.TUITION FEES:
Private 1 student				= Kshs 100/= per hour per student
Private 2 - 3 students				= Kshs 90/= per hour per student
Private 3 - 5 students				= Kshs 85/= per hour per student
Private 5 and above, their fees <-_is><+_are> negotiable
Missionaries and church organisations		= Kshs 85/= per hour per student
Please note that the above figures are for all local languages, Kiswahili and English only.
Other foreign languages:
Private 1 - 5 students				= Kshs 150/= per hour per student
7. TRAINING SITE:
Kingozi-Interchange's clients are encouraged to have their lessons at the centre at Adams Arcade Woodley, Nairobi. However, we offer on the spot training by sending our trainers to our customers wherever they reside within and outside Nairobi. This service is done on request.
8. OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED BY KINGOZI-INTERCHANGE:
(a). Educational Programmes:
Kingozi-Interchange facilitates creative programmes designed to prepare students for working and living in culturally diverse environments. The <-/institue> offers one and two <-_weeks><+_week> programmes in rural areas for Nairobi youths who have had no prior exposure to rural Kenya. Similarly, Kingozi-Interchange conducts intensive crosscultural seminars for American and European University students interested in development issues both in their respective countries and in East Africa (Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania).
(b) Orientation Services:
The institute prepares professionals and students intending to work/study outside of East Africa. The 4-day orientation includes intensive discussion about the countries to which the clients intend to travel. The seminar provides important historical, cultural, linguistic and social information. The orientation sessions are conducted by professional personnel who have worked and lived overseas <-_>and who have worked and lived overseas</> and who have returned to their professional occupation in East Africa.
9. CONCLUSION:
CLIENTS: Kingozi-Interchange has a staff of trainers of many years of experience in teaching Kiswahili and other languages. Some of the organisations which they have had the courtesy of dealing with, are listed <-/herebelow>:-
Danish Volunteer Service (D.V.S.)
Norwegian Volunteers (Norad)
German Volunteer Service (G.V.S.)
All African Conference of Churches (A.A.C.C.)
National Outdoor Leadership Schools (NOLS)
U.S. Peace Corps
Volunteer Service Overseas (V.S.O.)
Various Banks
United Nations Agencies
Austrian Volunteers
St Lawrence University
Visions in Action (U.S.)
Experiment in International Living (E.I.L.)
Various Catholic Missions
Catholic Relief Services
Africa Inland Church/Mission
Agency for Personal Services Overseas (APSO)
Various Missionary and Church Organisations
Daystar University
Various NGO's
Individuals etc.
W1B-BK50
Dear Sir,
RE: INTERNATIONAL YEAR OF THE FAMILY
I would like to bring to your attention the fact that 1994 has been proclaimed <-_as> the International Year of the Family by the United Nations General Assembly. The theme of the year is: "Family Resources and Responsibility in a Changing World".
Families assume diverse forms and functions from one country to another, and within each national society. International Year of the Family <-_serve><+_serves> to highlight the importance of families: increase a better understanding of their functions and problems; promote knowledge of the economic, social and demographic processes affecting families and their members, and focus attention upon the rights and responsibilities of all family members.
In order to establish a National co-ordinating committee for the Year, designate a National Focal point for the year as well as plan for National action for the year. UNHCR Nairobi would like to invite you for a meeting on 22nd July, 1993 in UNDP conference room KICC, 24th floor at 10.00 am.
For further information as well as confirmation of participation from your office, kindly contact Charlotte Poulsen, Social Services, UNHCR Nairobi, telephone 443028 extension 30.
Thank you for your co-operation.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK51
RE: AWB 072 - 3328 - 2502 
of 17th February, 1996
Refer your 3rd fax of 23.02.
We have not treated you a liar nor we would dare to tell you with such dirty word. We have high regards for you and we will continue to do so. For small matters, we never approach but whenever we have such serious matter we contact you. We respectfully contact you and will continue to do so.
The story given by your Mombasa manager, is completely untrue. Ask him, was he in the office on the day of 17th Feb? When did he inform us for this episode? Not on Monday morning. We phoned your airport office at about 0800 hours, the incharge-officer first of all did not have any information about this shipment going on GF714/17th Feb, is this not surprising! Nobody bothered to keep your airport office informed. We were told on Sunday that, they have been informed by MSA office to keep the stuff in cold room. Was this our authority?
This matter is very serious and we do not want to discuss through exchange of correspondences. If this shipment was not possible to connect the Gulfair flight at 1330 hours, then your man should not have allowed to let the goods go to Nairobi without any reason in a hope to reship on another flight, in case of failing on this booked flight.
We still emphasise that the negligence was on part of your Mombasa office and they should suffer the loss and not we. Once we have handed over our consignment to your people at the airport and already weighed then our responsibility is over. Then how to plan to send on which flight in order to get good connection for connecting flight and keep informed your Nairobi office. It is your responsibility not ours. We understand, we are clear here on this matter.
For your information, our last shipment was 17th February, and due to IDD holidays start on 19th February, our clients in Middle East instructed us not to ship anything as every shop will be closed till 23rd February. We did not make any booking with you after the 17th Feb, and we clearly told your Mr. <name/> to cancel if any on 19th February, and he should be clear on this issue. You man called us on the morning of 19th to ship above left out cargo on this day Gulfair to Abudhabi, which we refused as who will clear the shipment as our client was in celebration of IDD. <-/Infact>, we also cancelled the space of 2500 KGS on KQ310/19th Feb, for Dubai and no booking on Wednesday 21st February. <-/Infact>, we are the party to come into agreement with KQ to allocate us regular space on their 2 flights weekly to Dubai from here. After frequent offloads on these flights at Nairobi and you know, we had suffered lot during December, inspite of paying 10c extra from here we regularly ship on these flights and we passed on this business to your Mombasa office. This was our effort.
Being very clear and honest, we will not agree to any suffering on this matter and we hope you would <-/justifically> stand on our side. We personally do not protest nor harm anybody in your organisation with whom we have been enjoying good services and facility, with high respect and we pledge to continue in future.
For your information, from next season we will be expanding our this industry of horticulture trade - as my 2nd son Sameer will be joining with us in September, after finishing his diploma in horticultural at Warwickshire, U.K.. We will be Insha-Alllah with strong force of university agronomist to expand our force.
I personally again mention that there is not any ill-feeling nor have intentioned to call you with bad word, you have felt. Hope you have now heard our story for your judgement.
With best regards,
<name/>
W1B-BK52
Dear Sir,
RE: INDUSTRIAL CASEIN FOR LABELLING BEER BOTTLES GC 4013B
We refer to our telephone conversation this afternoon between your Mr. Githua and the undersigned on the above subject.
First and foremost we would like to take this opportunity to introduce our company to you. We are one of the biggest manufacturers of Industrial adhesives in Kenya and indeed we supply Industrial adhesives to highly reputable organisations among them:
1. Delmonte (K) Ltd.
2. Panafrican Paper Mills (E.A) Ltd.
3. East African Industries Ltd.
4. Chandaria Industries Ltd.
5. Madhu Paper (K) Ltd.
6. Cussons & Co. Ltd.
7. Nestle Foods Ltd.
8. Trufoods Ltd.
9. Colgate Palmolive (E.A) Ltd.
10. Johnson Wax (E.A) Ltd.
11. The Jamo Kenyatta Foundation.
12. Unga Group Ltd.
13. Printers.
14. Wood Working Industries etc.
This is just to mention a few of them.
However as regarding the casein adhesive for Labelling beer and wine bottles we are now in a position to supply you with any quantity you may immediately require.
The following is the technical specification of this particular grades:-
PRODUCT	-	CASEIN ADHESIVE NO. GC 4013B.
BASE	-	Casein/Starch
MAIN USE	-	Bottle Labelling adhesive
DESCRIPTION	-	Used for high speed front or back body, shoulder or neck
		Labelling. Ideal adhesive for Light Weigh Label papers.
LABELLING SPEED	-	Up to 40,000 bottles per hour, wet/cold. Wet/warm, dry/cold.
		This adhesive has good label wash off properties for returnable 		bottles.
APPLICATION METHOD	-	All pumped systems with vertical or horizontal
	rollers.
OPERATING TEMPERATURE	-	20 - 28oC. - heated pumps can be used in
		very cold conditions.
VISICOSITY	-	70,000 - 85,000 mpas/20oC.
COLOUR	- 	Pale.
SOLID CONTENT	-	38 - 39%.
PH	-	Approximate 8.
APPROVAL	-	All raw materials accepted under "Food packing
		adhesive" - 21 CFR 175.105.
CLEANING	-	Use warm water.
FORM OF SUPPLY	-	Plastic drums.
STORAGE	-	Protect from freezing and store in a cool, place
		above 15oC. Under these conditions the adhesive
		will have a storage life of six (6) months or
		longer.
We are sending you 1. kilo free sample for your tests and analysis.
If you require a bigger sample for your tests on the bottling line please let us know what quantity will be adequate for a trial run.
In the <-/mean time> we would like to assure you of our best services and co-operation for the mutual <-_benefits><+_benefit> of our two companies.
Yours faithfully,
for <name/>
<name/>
W1B-BK53
Dear Sir,
RE: SCHEDULED ANNUAL MAINTENANCE
I refer to you letter dated 15th January 1996. ref; 7060680/FNG/sbm. As requested please find the production activities for the year. Due to our refrigeration requirements, our supply should not be interrupted for a period exceeding 12 hours.
	MONTH	ACTIVITY
	February, March, April	Production stops on all
		sections on all weekends.
	May, June, July		-	ditto	-
	August, September, October		-	ditto	-
	November, December, January	PRODUCTION ON
		ALL	WEEKENDS
Yours faithfully,
for <name/>,
<name/>
W1B-BK54
Dear Mr. <name/>,
RE: CANCELLATION OF ORDER NO. 167306
As we are not happy with the way our ad of 9th January was executed, we hereby write to cancel the above order that was signed by your Mr. <name/> on 6th January 1995.
As the advertisement was paid for by cheque No. 896773 of 41,035.70, please send us a refund cheque for the same, or the same cheque.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK55
Dear Sir,
RE:	INVITATION TO JOIN THE LOBBY GROUP
	OF THE JOINT FIDA/ICJ ELECTION MONITORING UNIT
The International Federation of Women Lawyers (FIDA), Kenya Chapter, and the International Commission of Jurists (ICJ), Kenya Section, have established an independent Election Monitoring Unit in anticipation of the forthcoming multi-party General Election.
The short term objectives of the Election Monitoring Unit are: (a) to train a cross-section of lawyers, church officials, human rights activists, students and other groups to monitor the elections; (b) to ensure that the voters are well versed in the correct electoral procedures and their voting rights, and (c) to monitor the forthcoming elections at all the stages of the electoral process and ensure that it is fair to all political parties, and indeed all electors and that any attempt at rigging or other forms of electoral misconduct are noted and reported.
The long term objective is to seek legitimacy and support for an independent election monitoring unit, to elaborate on its composition and functions, structure and role in subsequent elections. Hopefully, the FIDA/ICJ undertaking will introduce a local initiative to ultimately install and justify the need for a permanent independent electoral commission.
In order to establish our bona fides as well as to have our intentions known to the relevant authorities, we have sent out letters to the Attorney-General, the Chairman of the Electoral Commission, and the Secretaries - General of the political parties.
The first step towards the above objectives is to seek co-operation, support and endorsement all - round, and especially from those actively involved in the electoral process including the electorate. To achieve this, a group of prominent and respected citizens have been invited by the Joint FIDA/ICJ Executive Committee to form a Lobby Group to articulate the need to put in place the necessary enabling legal environment for the holding of free and fair elections.
There is need, for example, to publicize those crucial areas of our legal system which require immediate attention so as to make the transition to multi-party politics genuine and meaningful. This will be accomplished by, amongst other things, a one-day workshop to be held in Nairobi. At the workshop, two major discussion papers on the various factors which go towards ensuring the holding of free and fair elections will be presented by knowledgeable people in this field. Representatives from all registered political parties, religious organisations, NGOs, pressure groups and grassroots movements have been invited to participate in the workshop.
To achieve the above objectives, the Joint Executive Committee has organised a Lobby Group Workshop to be held at the Safari Park Hotel Nairobi, on Friday August 14, 1992 Nairobi, stating at 9.00 a. m. to which you are kindly invited to attend or send a representative .
Yours sincerely,
<name/> <name/>
W1B-BK56
Dear Sir/Madam,
Re: Purchase of schistosomiasis (bilharzia) education book (in Kiswahili)
Initiatives Publishers recently released the above book entitled <ea_>Elimu ya Afya katika Usimamizi wa Kichocho<ea/>. The Kiswahili edition is a faithful translation of the English version entitled, Health Education in the Control of Schistosomiasis, published in 1990 by the World Health Organization, Geneva.
A number of organizations have already ordered copies for use by their health projects in the field and we hope that the <-/Germany> Embassy may also find the book useful for projects in Kenya and the Eastern Africa region.
Enclosed please find a description of the book and ordering information. An inspection copy can be provided for large orders. We look forward to hearing from you.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
Publications Associate
W1B-BK57
Dear Sir,
REF: OPENING OF LAKE ELEMENTAITA LODGE.
We are hereby happy to inform you that we will be opening our above unit as from 10th, August, 1995.
Currently we will be operating 20 rooms <-/upto> the end of the month to give way to  final finishing of the rest 13 rooms.
We wish to request you now to give the go ahead to your reservations to book the above unit as from now on.
Thanking you for your assistance.
Regards.
<name/>
Reservations Manager.
W1B-BK58
Dear Sir,
RE:	OUTSTANDING AMOUNT - KSHS.7,382/70
	OUR CLIENT: URGENT CARGO HANDLING LTD.
We act for our above named client generally and in the above matter in particular.
We are informed by our said client that you are indebted to them in the sum of Kshs.7,382/70 in respect of services rendered to you by yourselves at your request, full particulars thereof being within your possession.
We are instructed to demand of you, which we hereby do, the said sum of KShs.7,382/70 and inform you that should the said sum remain unpaid SEVEN (7) days from the date hereof, we have mandatory instructions to file recovery proceedings against you without any further reference to you whatsoever and entirely at your own peril as to costs and other consequences.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
W1B-BK59
Dear Sir,
GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND PENSION SCHEME
We refer to your letter dated 27th November, 1990 requesting us to prepare a package for the above scheme.
To enable us to obtain the premium quotation for the above scheme, we kindly request you to complete the attached Group Employee Information Form and return it to us as soon as possible.
In  meantime, we attach schedules of questions and answers on the Group Pensions and Group Life Scheme that will be discussed during the presentation for your perusal.
We will come for the preliminary discussions on Thursday 6/12/90 at 10.00 A.M. in your office, which kindly note in your diary .
Thank you.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
Marketing Manager.
W1B-BK60
Dear <name/>,
RE: GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND PENSION SCHEME
Please refer to our letter of January 18, 1991 enclosing ALICO's Group Life and Pension proposals and kindly let us know if you have now reviewed the proposals so that we may arrange a meeting at your earliest convenience to discuss this important matter with you in greater details .
I will contact you on telephone  next week to arrange an early meeting at your convenience.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
W1B-BK61
Dear <name/>,
RE: GROUP LIFE AND PENSION SCHEME
Further to your letter of January 10, 1991 we are pleased to enclose ALICO's proposals prepared on the basis of your letter of December 19, 1990 for your consideration.
We are also pleased to inform you that ALICO's interest rate on Pension Funds with ALICO has been increased from 14% shown in the attached proposals to 16% p.a. which is among the highest in the Kenyan Pension Market.
Please review the enclosed proposals and let us know if you require further clarification on any point in the enclosed proposals to enable you reach your decision on this important matter.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
(Encls:).
W1B-BK62
Dear <name/>,
RE: GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND PENSION SCHEME
Please refer to our letters of January 18, 1991 and February 19, 1991 and our subsequent recent telephone discussion on the above subject, and kindly let us know if your proposed new Scheme will be implemented effective July 1, 1991 as you had earlier planned.
Please let us have your confirmation that the ALICO's Pension and Group Life insurance proposal sent to you with our letter of January 18, 1991 is acceptable to you for implementation on July 1, 1991 so that we may take the necessary immediate action to implement the new Scheme.
Yours Sincerely
<name/>
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
W1B-BK63
Dear <name/>, 
RE: GROUP LIFE AND PENSION SCHEME
We thank you for your letters of November 27, 1990 and December 19, 1990 on the above subject.
We confirm that we are now arranging for suitable quotations based on your letter of December 19, 1990 and we expect to send you the quotations for your consideration within the next two weeks.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
W1B-BK64
Dear Sir,
RE : 	STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
	TRUST DEED AND RULES
We are pleased to enclose herein a copy of the Trust Deed and Rules for your records.
We wish to inform you that following the Finance Minister's budget Speech in June 1992, the commissioner of Income Tax has recently introduced some new conditions to be met by Retirement Benefits Schemes for them to qualify for registration.
We are working on the inclusion of these conditions in the Trust Deed and Rules and will revert to you as soon as Registration is granted.
The process of Registration of schemes of this nature is one that usually takes a bit of time from our experience.
However, we are doing our best to ensure that this is done without undue delay.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
SUPERVISOR - PENSIONS
Encl.
W1B-BK65
Dear Sir
STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
We refer to the withdrawal of the above named member from your service and are now pleased to enclose our cheque No.710269 for K.Shs. 15,636/= in settlement of the withdrawal proceeds.
The amount of the cheque is arrived at as follows :-
(a)	Employee's surrender value	- K.Shs. 8,935/=
(b)	Employer's surrender value	- K.Shs. 8,935/=
(c)	Employer's entitlement of
	employer's surrender value	- K.Shs. 6,701/=
		 ____________
	Total amount of cheque a + c	 K.Shs.15,636/=
		 ===========
The balance of employer's surrender value amounting to K.Shs.2,234/= is to be held in the employer's account and the same utilized to reduce the premium due next anniversary date (i.e. 1 January 1994).
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and returning to us one copy of the enclosed forms of discharge.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
SUPERVISOR - PENSIONS
encls:
W1B-BK66
Dear Madam
STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
Your letter of 26th October 1994 and the subsequent telephone <-/coversation> between yourself and the undersigned regarding the above subject refers .
Enclosed herein please find a revised Costing Schedule indicating the correct salaries, contributions and Life cover premiums.
Kindly let us have your cheque for Kshs. 1,425/= in settlement of the difference resulting from the adjustment in salaries, arrived at as follows:-
Correct Annual Premium Due	- Kshs. 28,522.00
Premium Paid (Your cheque No. 226488)	- Kshs 27,097.00
Balance now due	 Kshs. 1,425.00
		======
We look forward to hearing from you in due course.
Yours faithfully
<name/>
ASST. MANAGER - PENSIONS
Enc.
W1B-BK67
Dear <name/>,
RE: STAFF PENSION SCHEME
We are pleased to inform you that the Government has introduced some amendments in the regulation of Retirement Benefit Schemes of the Income Tax (Retirement Benefits) Rules Cap.470. This is contained through legal notice No. 70 dated 26th March, 1993.
The areas affected are as follows (we have shown the relevant section of the Act ):-
(i)	 All employees who are in a category for which the employer has established the pension fund must join the scheme after a maximum of 2 years of service [Rule 4(n)].
(ii) 	All benefits derived from contributions made by an employee shall vest immediately in the employee [Rule 4(o)]. This applies upon retirement or early withdrawal.
(iii) 	Retirement Benefits accrued from membership shall be fully vested in an employee after a maximum of 5 years of pensionable service [Rule 4(p)].
You will also be pleased to note that during the recent budget speech, the maximum allowable taxfree contribution to a registered pension scheme has been increased to K.Shs.18,000/= per annum (i.e. Shs.1,500/= per month) with effect from 1st January, 1994.
We shall continue to keep you informed of any changes in legislation affecting your scheme with us as and when they become known to us.
We trust you will find the above useful and look forward to an even more mutually satisfying business relationship between our two organisations in the years to come.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
DIVISIONAL MANAGER - LIFE BUSINESS
W1B-BK68
Dear Sirs,
RE: STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
	TRUST DEED AND RULES
We refer to the above subject and are pleased to enclose herewith the Trust Deed and Rules to govern the above scheme.
Kindly peruse the same and let us have your comments if any. If the document is found satisfactory the names of the Trustees (at least three) should be inserted on the first page.
The same trustees should then sign on page 29 of the document which should then be sealed and returned to us to enable us arrange for the registration of the scheme with the Commissioner of Income Tax.
We look forward to hearing from you at an early date.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
BRANCH MANAGER - INDUSTRIAL AREA
Encs.
W1B-BK69
Dear Sirs,
STAFF BENEFIT SCHEME
Telephone discussion on 8th March, 1994 between <name/> and the undersigned refers <&/>style.
We forwarded a copy of the Trust Deed And Rules to the Commissioner on 1st October, 1993 for purposes of the registration of the scheme.
On 26th November the Commissioner replied to our letter suggesting certain amendments to the Document. This was complied with and the amended document returned to his Office on 15th December, 1993.
We have since not heard from the Commissioner's Office despite our reminders resting with the one of 25th January, 1994.
We are in constant touch with his Office and will revert to you as soon as he grants approval to the scheme.
Kindly let us know <-/incase> you require and <-/futher> information .
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
SENIOR BRANCH MANAGER - INDUSTRIAL AREA
W1B-BK70
Dear Sir,
RE: STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
We refer to the commencement of the above scheme as at 1st January, 1992 and are pleased to enclose herewith the following:-
a) The initial costing schedule as at 1st January, 1992
b) Premium statement reflecting a balance of Kshs. 5,091.80. We attach a break-down of how the outstanding premium has been arrived at to enable you <+_to> draw your cheques.
c) Form G49 for our medical requirements.
d) Health declaration forms to be completed by the members appearing on form G49 and the same be returned to us.
We have allocated a free cover limit of Kshs. 653,000/= and all those members whose sums assured exceed this limit will have to undergo medical examinations as shown on the enclosed <-/from> G49.
The medical examinations which are free of expense to the members should be carried out by either Dr. <name/> of Nairobi Hospital, Tel: 720722,, P.O. Box 20748, Nairobi, Tel: 336449.
Kindly arrange to let us have proof of the members' dates of birth in the form of photocopies of either Identity cards, Birth certificates, or passports. 
We have enclosed 24 copies of scheme booklets to be distributed to all members of the scheme. Also enclosed is our official receipt No. 6476 for Kshs. 351,440/15. Receipts for the other two foundations will follow shortly.
We wish to confirm to you that we are now on cover <-/upto> the free cover limit or three times each member's annual salary whichever is the less.
We look forward to hearing from you at an early date.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
BRANCH MANAGER INDUSTRIAL AREA
'encls'
W1B-BK71
Dear Sir,
RE: STAFF RETIREMENT BENEFITS SCHEME
We refer to the above and are now pleased to enclose herewith our quotation together with a self explanatory report for your kind consideration.
1. DEPOSIT ADMINISTRATION
The quote is based on contribution rates of 5% for both the employees and employer.
In arriving at the estimated retirement benefits in column 9 and 10 the following assumptions have been taken into account:-
(i) The members remain in service until retirement.
(ii) The salaries remain <-_in> constant until retirement date.
(iii) The interest rate remains constant at 16% per annum compound.
It is important to note that this interest rate is only for illustration purposes and the actual interest rate declared on our Deposit Administration contracts <-/inforce> as at 31st December, 1990 was 171/2 % per annum compound. Interest is declared every 31st December following a valuation of the Life fund.
(a) The guaranteed Interest
Our policy guarantees an interest rate of 5%. This rate is subject to review every three years by our actuary and we shall notify all our clients in writing of the new rate. Our policy guarantees the capital.
(b) Discontinuance
Should the scheme be discontinued with Madison Insurance Company Kenya Limited, the transfer value will be subject to 3% penalty reduction in first year of transfer and will reduce by 1% per annum until reduction is zero
W1B-BK72
Chief Executives,
Insurance Companies,
Insurance Brokers,
Loss Adjusters.
10th ANNUAL INSURANCE INSTITUTE CONFERENCE.
The 10th Annual Insurance Conference will be held at the hotel Intercontinental on Friday, 17th November, 1995 and three speakers have been invited to present papers on the following topics:-
1. Mr. <name/> from South Africa will present a paper entitled "Re-insurance Development and its future in Africa".
2. Mr.<name/>, registrar of the High Court will present a paper on, "The Legal System and Insurance in Kenya". We have requested him to speak on a wide spectrum of subjects covering the behaviour of advocates, court brokers and the judges.
3. Mr. <name/> from India will speak on Life Insurance, the Experience and Developments in India.
I <-_will><+_would> be grateful if you could let me have names of nominees to the conference by 5th October, 1995.
The cost per head will be K.shs.1,000/= which will include lunch and teas. We request you send your cheque when submitting the list of the delegates.
In the past, due to late submission of names of delegates, some companies have been omitted from the conference bulletin and to avoid any <-_disappointments><+_disappointment>, I would urge you to ensure that the names are submitted within the deadline which will also allow adequate time for the printing of the conference bulletins and materials.
Yours faithfully,
INSURANCE INSTITUTE OF KENYA
DIRECTOR
W1B-BK73
TO:	Office Representatives, Insurance Companies/Brokers/Agents/
	Loss Adjusters/Reinsurance Companies etc.
REF:	ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE INSURANCE INSTITUTE OF KENYA 
FRIDAY, 26TH JANUARY 1996
Notice is hereby given that the Insurance Institute of Kenya will hold its Annual General Meeting on Friday, 26th January 1996 at the <-/Proffessional> Centre at 5.30 p.m. All members are requested to attend.
The Agenda of the meeting will be:-
(1) Confirmation of the minutes of the last Annual General Meeting
(2) Director's Report for the year 1995
(3) Treasurer's Report for the year 1995
(4) Elections and confirmation of 1996 officer bearers
(5) Any other business
A specimen nomination form is attached. This may be duplicated.
Nomination of Office Bearers for 1996 should be made in the prescribed form and <-/fowarded> to the Hon. Secretary, The Insurance Institute of Kenya, P.O. Box 45338, Nairobi so as to reach him by 31st December 1995 i.e. (At least 4 weeks before the Annual General Meeting).
Yours sincerely
HON. SECRETARY
Enc.
W1B-BK74
Dear Sir,
REF: TELEPHONE ACCOUNT - NAIROBI 582740
Reference is made to your letter dated 20th May 1992 concerning overcharge on metered and timed calls.
This is to inform you that as per our records charges were properly raised and in view you are advised to clear the account <-/infull> so as not to suffer disconnection.
We are sorry for the <-/inconviniences> it may have caused you.
Yours faithfully,
TELEPHONE ACCOUNTS/NN
W1B-BK75
Dear Sirs,
RE: AGENCY
We had the privilege of handling the shipment of <name/> and delivered to his residence for the assignment in Kenya on <date/>.
We have pleasure in confirming that in the light of experience in the past, Removals Freight & Travel Ltd is in a position to render most competitive and efficient services for <name/> as a sole agent in this country offering you quality services of highest international standards.
Besides the professional services we offered in clearing and forwarding, we do also specialise in professional packing of household and personal effects, office and house removals, clearing and forwarding by sea and air on door to door basis worldwide. Under the same umbrella, we operate a travel, tours and car hire department specialising in local and international <-/airbookings>, railway bookings and camping safaris.
In addition to this, we operate two prestigious warehouses very close to the city centre off Likoni Road near BAT Nairobi for short and long term storage. They are secured with alarm and remote control system and insurance cover. The warehouses are spacious with approximately 20,000 square feet.
We have branches at Bima Tower in Mombasa, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and Inland Container Depot.
Removals Freight & Travel Ltd represents a network of approximately 2000 agents worldwide. This has enabled us to represent our clients to any destination in the world. This worldwide network of agents is attributed to the fact that we are a member of several international associations as per our letterhead.
We have built  a wonderful reputation both locally and internationally and now stand as number one removal company specialising in handling household goods in Kenya. Our efforts in providing these services has been recognised by strong recommendations we receive from our clients. For your reference, we enclose herewith some of the few recommendations with our brochures and tariff for car hire.
Finally we wish to express our appreciation most sincerely for the co-operation and support given to us when we handled the shipment of <name/>.
May we assure you that it will be our pleasure to offer you our best services if you give us opportunity to do so.
REMOVALS FREIGHT & TRAVEL LTD are the people who care. Please try us.
Yours faithfully,
REMOVALS FREIGHT & TRAVEL LTD
MANAGING DIRECTOR
W1B-BK76
Dear Sir
RE: REVIEW OF RATES
Needless to say, virtually all costs have shot up over the last few months. In transport for instance, due to the drastic increases of inputs: fuel, tyres, oils and lubricants, spares and accessories, amongst others. We estimate that these imported items have on average risen by over 61% since the beginning of March.
In view of this, we have been compelled to adjust our rates accordingly. Attached therefore is a copy each of the revised transport rates and UCHL tariff effective May 01, 1993.
We thank you for your understanding and continued support, assuring you as always of our best services.
Yours faithfully
<name/>
MARKETING EXECUTIVE
encl
cc PA/All Department and Section Heads: UCHL
W1B-BK77
Dear Sir,
OUTSTANDING ACCOUNT
We have completed the finalisation of our accounts for audit purposes and find you have an outstanding balance on your account of KShs 825.00 as at 31st August 1992.
We enclose a copy of our ledger sheet detailing the various invoices raised, payments made and, where relevant, accounts brought forward on 1st April 1990 from <name/>.
Where we have made any errors or <-/ommissions>, we would be grateful if you could draw these to our attention as soon as possible and where you find the account to be admissible, we would appreciate your immediate remittance to enable us to clear these accounts.
Thank you for your cooperation.
Yours faithfully,
Managing Director
enc
W1B-BK78
Dear Sirs,
OUTSTANDING ACCOUNT
Thank you for your efforts to help us reconcile your account.
We have studied our records again and have discovered a computer error that did not pick up your payment in settlement of Invoice No: <number/> of Kshs <number/> on 15 May 1990 thereby clearing the above account said to be outstanding. May we extend our very sincere apologies for any <-/embarrassement> or inconvenience this may have caused and thank you for your cooperation and forbearance.
We hope to have our accounting system brought up <-/todate> shortly and assure you that we will do our best to keep such errors to the minimum.
Yours sincerely,
Managing Director
W1B-BK79
Dear Sir
I participated in the recent national symposium on Adult Education which your organization sponsored at Thuci Lodge in Embu.
The Kenya National Library Services is a parastatal body entrusted with the responsibility of establishing, planning and managing public library services in this country. The Board was established in 1967 and <-/to-date> we manage a country-wide network of seventeen public libraries throughout Kenya. We in addition provide mobile library services to the rural communities who reside far from the urban centres where libraries are located. Amongst our clients are school going children, working class people as well as adult literacy learners. One of our principal functions is to compliment and <-/suppliment> the adult literary programme in terms of provision of suitable reading materials to the post literacy adult learners.
We are keen to know more about your foundation and in particular on those of your activities that areas of co-operation could be explored , for  mutual benefit of our two organizations.
KNLS has had a lot of fruitful co-operation with such German organizations as the GTZ and DSE, and I have no doubt that it is possible to open up a chapter of friendship with yet another German Institution namely the <name/>.
Thanking you for your continued assistance to our country.
Yours sincerely
DIRECTOR
W1B-BK80
Dear <name/>
SPECIAL "CASH IN" OFFER
This is to notify you that due to the success in this venture and  low season approaching, we have now extended the above special offer through to 15th December, 1995. Therefore please continue "Cashing in".
We very much appreciate your support.
In addition to the above, we will offer you 01 Double <-/Fullboard> complimentary to your Desk Sales Staff when you achieve 15 <-/bednights> on this Offer. This will also bring the awareness to your staff on first hand information and knowledge of Naro Moru River Lodge .
We wish you all the best of success in future and assure you our best services and co-operation at all times. 
Yours sincerely,
MANAGER
W1B-BK81
Dear Sir,
Re: SCHEDULE OF OUR MAY SEMINARS
We are pleased to inform you that we shall be holding the following seminars during the month of May at Silver Springs Hotel on the dates shown against each seminar.
A. SELLING & MARKETING OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES SEMINAR - May 10-14, 1993:
Nearly all the Management Training seminars held in Kenya deal with the Marketing of goods, the marketing of services is a neglected area. But the marketing of services is different from the marketing of goods.
This seminar's basic premise is that the unique characteristics of services present special challenges and strategic marketing opportunities to the service marketer.
B. MANAGEMENT SKILLS DEVELOPMENT SEMINAR - May 24-28, 1993:
The objective of this seminar is to show participants how to improve their own performance as well as that of their subordinates through better management of their areas of responsibility reduction in waste and general increase in efficiency. The seminar will involve an integration of the major functional areas of business management into a comprehensive view of the total operating system.
Our charges are Kshs.1,600 per participant per day, these charges will cover all tuition expenses, reading materials, group photograph, certificate of participation, lunch and light beverages.
Enclosed herewith please find a timetable and a nomination form for your use.
We look forward to hearing from you soon.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
TRAINING MANAGER
Encl.
W1B-BK82
Dear Sir,
RE: SEMINAR ON STRATEGIC SOCIAL MARKETING - 24th-28th, Aug.1992
This seminar is designed to provide participants with a comprehensive and <-/straighforward> approach to effective planning and implementation of social programmes.
Attached herewith please find the timetable and a brief write up on the seminar as regards the objectives, resource people, charges, venue and the dates.
To assist us in forward planning, please fill in the name(s) of your nominee(s) in the enclosed nomination form and mail it back to us.
We look forward to hearing from you soon.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
TRAINING MANAGER
Encl.
W1B-BK83
Dear Sir,
RE: OUR 1994 TRAINING PROGRAMME
We are pleased to send you our 1994 Training Brochure.
The seminars detailed in the brochure have been designed to meet the training needs of different cadre of personnel but more so the needs of those being developed to assume higher responsibilities.
<-/A part> from these scheduled seminars, Promin conducts in-house courses which are designed to cater for unique organizational needs.
Finally, on request Promin will undertake Consumer Attitude Surveys, Monitoring and Evaluation Studies, Market Surveys, Feasibility Studies and Organization and Development Studies.
Given the diversity of our services, we hope your organization will be able to make use of some of them.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
Managing Director
Encl.
W1B-BK84
RE: VISIT TO MARIDADI FABRICS ON 18TH OCTOBER, 1994
We send you our warm greetings from Maridadi Fabrics hoping that you are doing well at your work after your recent travel to Germany.
We kindly invite you to visit Maridadi Fabrics as agreed during our telephone conversation on 7th October, 1994. We know that you must be very busy at this time however, we hope that you will have a little time to pay us a visit on the date requested above.
We send you a map for direction regarding the whereabouts of Maridadi Fabrics.
Yours Sincerely,
<name/>
General Manager.
W1B-BK85
Dear Mr. <name/>,
Thank you for visiting us here in Maridadi on the 18th October, 1994. We all appreciated your visit and all the staff members were overwhelmed with the great joy you left behind.
We all look forward to a good relationship with the <name/> foundation. Please pass our regards to all the <name/> foundation members.
Thanking you.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
General Manager.
W1B-BK86
Dear colleague,
Ref. Workshop on the theme: The Administration of Criminal Justice
	- The Road to Trial - Re - scheduling of dates of the Workshop
We refer to our recent letter inviting you to participate in the above captioned workshop.
We regret to inform you that it has become necessary to re-schedule the dates from 25th - 27th August to <-/sometime> in October, 1994. This has become necessary after it transpired that both the Attorney-General and the Chief Justice will be out of the country for most of the latter part of this month.
When we called on the Attorney-General on 8th August, 1994 he informed us that his diary was full up to 12th October and that thereafter he will be able to participate in our workshop. Accordingly, Mr Amos Wako suggested that we also obtain confirmation from the Chief Justice that he will also be available then. This we are in the process of obtaining.
We consider the participation of both the Attorney-General and the Chief Justice as crucially important as the three workshops under the rubric The Administration of Criminal Justice are premised on the valid point that it is important to involve all the major players in this area who include the prosecution personnel, the judiciary and representatives from the law enforcement agencies.
We regret the inconvenience caused by the postponement of the forthcoming workshop but hope you will understand. We will immediately inform you about the new dates once these are determined.
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
DIRECTOR.
W1B-BK87
Dear <name/>
RE: CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA EXCHANGE CONTROL CIRCULAR NO. 6/93/38
The Government of Kenya issued instruction on the liberalization of exchange control regulations in Kenya on 14th May 1993 as per the above exchange control notice. With effect from that day, all non resident guests are required to settle their bills in foreign currency only. Kenya shillings are no longer acceptable.
In order for us to give all our esteemed customers enough time to comply with this notice, we wish to advise you that with effect from 1st July 1993, we shall be billing you in US dollars for all non resident guests. Please ensure that you send us your payment in US dollars for all such guests.
In order to avoid misunderstandings, we would appreciate you advising our Reservation Department at the time of making the reservation whether the guest you are booking is a resident or non resident of Kenya.
If you require any further information please do not hesitate to contact us.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
Regional Financial Controller Eastern Africa
W1B-BK88
Dear <name/>
RE: HOTEL RATES 1994
As you are probably aware, The Grand Regency Hotel has been operational since 1st April, 1994. During this short period of its operation, both international and local dignitaries have been made aware of the excellent facilities and the professional services that are provided. The demand is rising sharply and our computerised bookings stretch beyond December 1994.
Consequently, and in order to ensure that your demands are met, we are now pleased to offer you special rates that you will find competitive for Hotel  rated among the top 100 in the world. We are in the category of Preferred Hotels and Resorts worldwide and indeed the Hotel of the future. You deserve a taste of the future - SIMPLY SUPERIOR!
Our rates are now quoted in Kenya Shillings and in your particular special case, the rates previously given in US dollars will now be paid in Kenya Shillings as follows:-
	Single room	 Kshs. 5,500 + 30% Government tax
	Double room	Kshs. 6,000 + 30% 	 "	 "
These are valid <-/upto> 31st December, 1994
It is relevant to inform you that our normal rack rates are KShs. 12,000.00 and Kshs. 15,000.00 + 30% taxes for single and double respectively. We feel honoured to be of service to you and look forward to the pleasure of a mutually beneficial association.
Yours faithfully
<name/>
DIRECTOR SALES & MARKETING
W1B-BK89
Dear <name/>
RE: SPECIAL RATES - 1995
As we look forward to a brighter future, we wish to <-_formerly><+_formally> recognize the support your organization has given us during 1994.
The year 1994 is soon coming to an end. As a token of our appreciation for your support, we are delighted to inform you that your 1994 rates will remain unchanged <-/upto> and including 31st March, 1995. Thereafter, a modestly considered increase will be effected commencing 1st April, 1995 as follows:-
	Single room		Kshs. 6,000 + 30% taxes room only<
	Double room		Kshs. 6,500 + 30% 	" " "
As we intimated earlier, the hotel of the future is now here. You have therefore made the right choice to use Africa's Landmark Hotel - SIMPLY SUPERIOR!
On our part, we are proud to be associated with you and are committed to ensuring complete satisfaction to our valued patrons.
Yours sincerely
<name/>
DIRECTOR SALES & MARKETING
W1B-BK90
Dear Sir,
Re.: Proposed staff Pension and Group Life Assurance Scheme
It was a great pleasure meeting you on the 11th December 1990 and we must thank you indeed for sparing so much of your time to discuss the above scheme which you wish to implement in respect of your German Foundations with offices in this country, namely, <-/Friedrick> Ebert Foundation, <-/Kourad> Adenauer Foundation, Friedrich Naumann Foundation and yourselves - Hanns Seidel Foundation.
As agreed, <-/inorder> to enable us to provide you with a suitable package for this scheme for further discussions with the officials of the four Foundations we would be obliged if you could arrange to let us have the following information:-
A list of the members who would be considered for membership, showing:-
(1) Names of the Employees
(2) their dates of birth
(3) their basic salaries
(4) proposed commencement date of the scheme
As soon as the above information is at hand we will provide you with the required quotations.
Looking forward to hearing from you, we remain,
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
ACCOUNTS EXECUTIVE
W1B-BK91
Dear Sir,
RE: GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AND GROUP PENSION SCHEME
We refer to your letter dated 19th December, 1990 and are pleased to enclose a quotation on the above proposed scheme <-/to gether> with a self explanatory report for your consideration.
It is our sincere hope that the quotation will be of interest to you and please do not hesitate to contact the undersigned should you require any clarification.
We will be pleased to be of service to you.
Thank you.
Yours <-/faithfull>,
<name/>
MARKETING MANAGER.
W1B-BK92
Dear Sir, 
RE: ADVERT ON THE REPORT ON THE HEARING ON STREET CHILDREN
The above matter refers.
On behalf of ANPPCAN Kenya Chapter, I would like to most sincerely thank Nation Newspapers Ltd. for donating space to advertise the sale of the above Report.
As you are aware, the advert did appear on 24th and 25th June, 1995
As a result of this, we are pleased to inform you that we have had an increase in the number of sales.
We would also wish to register our appreciation to Nation Newspapers for covering the launching ceremony of the above Report that was held on 8th May, 1995 at City Hall.
We look forward to working with your paper on the common cause of helping alleviate the many problems facing our children.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
CHAIRMAN
W1B-BK93
ATTENTION: MR <name/>
Dear Sir
We refer to the discussions of our Mr <name/> with you and enclose herewith a sample of Titebond VRG, synthetic water based transparent adhesive having very good tack and bond strength, ideal for pasting paper labels to glass bottles both manually as well as on high speed labelling machines with the following specifications:
APPEARANCE		: Transparent solution
SOLIDS		: 14% + 1%
VISCOSITY @ 30% on
Brookefield, Spl. No 4				: 50-80 poise
APPLICATION		: Bottle labelling
Can you please acknowledge receipt, arrange to test the same and revert with your comments. We have been advertised by our Principals that Titebond VRG has the following specific advantages over Cassein based adhesive:
TITEBOND VRG	CASSEIN BASED ADHESIVE
1. No fungus grown - synthetic	Fungus growth possible on
	in nature	storage of glue or on application &
		drying on label at a later date.
2. Transparent-hence printed matter	-
	on reverse can be seen.
3. <-/Hotwater> soluble only. Hence labels	Labels will fall off in cold
	will not fall off when in contact	temperature as Cassein will
	with cold water in cooler. The	become brittle.
	label will come off only during
	recycling of bottle and washed
	with hot water.
4. Ready to use adhesive. Long	Preparation required. if ready to use
	shelf life.	then shelf life limited.
5. Non-toxic in nature	Non-toxic in nature.
6. No smell	Can smell on putrification.
We await to hear your feedback.
Yours faithfully
<name/>
W1B-BK94
Dear Sir,
MOMBASA
We are pleased to announce we have opened an office in Mombasa. The details are:-
	Address 	<address/>
	Telephone No. 	<number/>
	Fax No.	<number/>
The Manager is Mr. <name/> who has been with us in Nairobi for 3 years. Regular visits will be made by Mr. <name/> and Mr. <name/> as required.
We would take this opportunity of thanking you for your support in Nairobi in the past and if we can be of assistance at the Coast either we or Mr. <name/> will be pleased to hear from you.
For your general information, you may wish to know that our Nairobi office remains open on Saturdays from 10.00 a.m. until 3.00 p.m.
Also, in the event of any difficulty making any telephone contact with this office, our 'other' numbers are:-
	GENERAL OFFICE	<number/>
	<name/> (DIRECT)	<number/>
	<name/> (DIRECT)	<number/>
Thank you.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
MANAGING DIRECTOR.
W1B-BK95
Dear Sir,
RE: P.A.Y.E. LITERATURE AND PAYMENTS:
Please note the following:-
1. P.A.Y.E. LITERATURE YEAR 1995.
(a) P.A.Y.E. stationery for the year 1995 awaits your collection at the main Conference Hall of Income Tax House, off Ngong Road, Nairobi.
(b) The main Conference Hall is open for collection of parcels, Monday to Friday, from 8.15 a.m. to 12.45 p.m. and 2.00 p.m. to 4.45 p.m.
(c)Please arrange to collect your 1995 P.A.Y.E. stationery the earliest possible and remember to bring this letter with you for ease of reference. Your parcel number is ...........................
(d) There are various changes in the Income Tax Act (Cap. 470) with effect from 1st January 1995 affecting the operation of P.A.Y.E. Scheme. Therefore it is essential that you collect your literature well in advance to acquaint yourself with the changes.
2. 1994 P.A.Y.E. PAYMENTS AND END OF YEAR DOCUMENTS.
(a) You are reminded to ensure that all tax owing for the period January to December 1994 is settled in full, failing which heavy penalties will be incurred.
(b) You are also reminded that the 1994 P.A.Y.E. end of year return shall be furnished to this office NOT LATER THAN 28TH FEBRUARY 1995, failing which heavy penalties will be incurred. Your return will be incomplete if the P10 Form does not show the number of tax deduction cards P9, P9A, P9B, accompanying the P.A.Y.E. return as well as the statistical data required to be indicated on the reverse side of Form P.10.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
PRINCIPAL TAX OFFICER.
W1B-BK96
RE: <name/> REMOVAL GOODS SERVICE
	QUOTATION FOR SEAFREIGHT EXPORT
SHIPMENT DETAILS: 22 CBM REMOVAL GOODS LOOSE PACKED INTO 1 X 20 FT
	CONTAINER EX NAIROBI TO MUNICH/GERMANY
We are pleased to quote for the above mentioned shipment for Seafreight ex Nairobi up to port of entry Hamburg, as follows:
Please note that this is only an estimate The final costs and charges will be based on the actual volume and weight of the shipment, after completion of packing.
Charges stated are based on presently valid tariffs and rates which might change with or without prior notice.
We can arrange for a door-to-door Transport insurance at 3.0% of the total declared value. If you require this service, please provide us with a valued and itemized list of the items you want insured. Please note, that coverage is only granted, when the insurance premium is paid.
DESTINATION SERVICE
Destination charges for the above mentioned shipment up to delivery residence in Germany as follows:
Ex free arrival Port of Entry Hamburg, into normal situated residence Munich City Limits, including customs clearance, destination terminal handling charges, delivery, unpacking, setting up of furniture and return of empty container to nearest container depot
<-/Lumpsum> DEM 3.500,00
Excluded in the destination charges are customs duties/taxes, port storage, container demurrage charges (if any), use of lifting equipment, assembly of furniture and electrical appliances.
We hope, that our quotation finds your approval and we assure you already now of our dedicated professional service.
Yours faithfully,
<name/>
OPERATIONS MANAGER
SEAFREIGHT MANAGER
W1B-BK97
Dear <name/>
RE: CHAIRMAN OF DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN LANGUAGES
I am pleased to confirm you as the Chairman of Foreign Languages Department for a period of two years with effect from 1st March 1995. You will be paid the Chairman's responsibility allowance of L 575 per annum. All other Terms of Service and Conditions of service remain the unchanged.
As the Chairman of the Department, you will be in charge of all the administrative as well as academic programmes of the department and answerable directly to the Vice-Chancellor. Should a need arise for you to be away, please make a recommendation of your nominee(s), to me through the Dean of your Faculty for appointment of the Ag. Chairman.
If you accept the appointment on these terms, please sign in the space provided below and return to me a copy of this letter.
Enclosed please find a copy of a document spelling out responsibilities of Chairmen/Directors of Department/Institutes
Yours sincerely,
<name/>
W1B-BK98
TO: ALL SENATE MEMBERS
ATTENDANCE OF SENATE SUB-COMMITTEES
I have received a report to the effect that some Senate Members do not attend Senate Sub-Committees necessitating a record of no quorum. This has affected the proceedings of such important Committees as the Promotions and Appraisals Committee.
The purpose of this memo is to make an appeal to all Senators who have been elected or nominated to Senate Sub-Committees to attend all the meetings of these Committees. The success of the Senate depends a great deal an the work done by the Committees.
I have directed that the meetings of Senate Sub-Committees and other Committees in the University should be run in a business-like manner. They should start on time; and documentation should be accurate and to the point; and they should take short time. If we can do this then we shall all enjoy our meetings and move the business of the University forward.
<name/>
W1B-BK99
TO: ALL THE CHAIRMEN OF DEPARTMENTS
SUBJECT: RESEARCH AND PUBLICATIONS
As we approach the end of this academic year, it will be necessary for us to summarise the research carried out by our staff and publications put out.
In this regard, I am asking each Chairman to pass to each academic member a copy of the enclosed proforma which should be completed by ALL academic staff members, passed on to the Chairman who will make a summary report to me, with copies of completed Proformas not later than September 10, 1996.
<name/>
