W2D001K
ELECTIONS IN  A MULTI-PARTY SYSTEM
The ultimate objective in the forthcoming multi-party elections should be to elect a government that is sensitive to the problems that affect women. It is therefore important that one understands the electoral process in a multi-party system.
There are three stages in multi-party elections:
1. Party elections in which members elect party officials: While individual parties may make their own election rules, the common practice is for a voter to produce a party membership card to be allowed to vote.
2. Nomination of candidates for the general elections: This is the process where a party chooses a candidate to compete with candidates from other parties. It ensures that each party fields only one candidate to avoid too many candidates from the same party competing against each other in the general elections. Commonly, one needs only the party membership card to be allowed to nominate a candidate for that party for the elections.
3. The Presidential, Parliamentary and civic elections or General Elections: This is the most important stage of the electoral process. One does not need to be a member of any party to vote in general elections. One only needs to have registered as a voter and to have been issued with a voters' card to vote. One also needs an identity card.
Why Should You Vote?
(a) Because it is your democratic right:
By voting you exercise your democratic right of electing a government or representative. Because we cannot all go to parliament where laws are made, we elect capable leaders to go to parliament to  implement our wishes. Besides making laws, parliament is also the only organ which can change the constitution. The constitution is the document that guarantees rights and freedoms for all citizens. Whether or not parliament will represent our interests will depend on the quality of the people we choose.
(b) To elect a candidate of my choice:
Because those we elect pass laws and policies which affect all of us it is necessary that we should all vote to make sure that the candidate we elect will represent our views. As women, we have no choice but to favour women candidates where the opportunities arises. Indeed they are more likely to be gender sensitive and capable of articulating women issues in parliament.
Who is the Right Candidate?
The best candidate for women voters is the one who supports and understands women issues. This is a man or woman whose respect for women is demonstrated by his or her conduct in public and/or public life and in utterances. Those who make derogatory remarks about women or are disrespective to them are unlikely to promote women issues. In addition, the right candidate must be:
* .A person who understands issues that concern the people. The candidate must be aware of the people's problems and know how they could be solved. Such a candidate puts people and their interests first
* A person of unquestionable integrity. The candidate should be of good moral standing in both public and private life. This is a person not associated with such unpatriotic actions as nepotism, lying, tribalism, stealing of public funds, hypocrisy and such other behaviour.
* Sensitive to issues relating to women, children, minorities and the <-/underpriviledged>.
* A candidate who can stand for justice, equality and unity at any cost 
* A humble person. Arrogant people do not make good leaders for they do not listen to others. They tend to be dictatorial. A democratic society is built on dialogue and only those who promote it should be elected. This dialogue must involve both sexes on an equal footing.
* A person who does not try to influence voters with gifts, money and political patronage. Candidates who offer bribes to be elected forget the wishes of the electorate as soon as they are elected because they bought their way to power.
* Respectable and respecting. This calls for a mature, educated and democratic minded candidate. The candidate should have a political plan and organizational abilities needed to fight such problems as disease, poverty and ignorance.
Important
Voters should not be influenced by the poverty or wealth of a candidate. A poor candidate who has the above qualities is as qualified as a wealthy  candidate who has the same qualities.
People should not expect their individual needs e.g. school fees to be met by the leader.
What is a Good Government?
A good government is one that protects not only the individual rights but also the rights of all citizens.
Therefore, a good government is one that:
*  Protects the interests of all citizens 
*  Promotes justice, peace, unity and equality for all irrespective of gender
*  Protects the constitution
*  Is not corrupt
*  Understands the priority of the people
*  Is beneficial to the entire society and especially to the weak
*  Has a clear development programme
*  Respects all political opinions
*  Respects human rights
How can You Help make a Good Government?
Every general election determines how the country will run for the next
five years. You can influence this by:
(a) Electing a government you like or by replacing one you do not want.
(b) Electing a party with the most promising policies for you and society in general
(c) Electing a candidate you have confidence in with regard to the interests of your locality and
     nation.
(d) Removing and replacing a president, M.P., councillors or party found not to be responsive to
     local and national problems.
(e) Electing men and women who can articulate on issues and initiate programmes.
(f) Electing women leaders who understand women's issues and problems in the society.
Must You Join a Political Party?</h>
In a multi-party system the government is usually formed by the party that wins the majority seats in parliament. However, recent laws passed by the Kenyan parliament empower a popularly elected president to form a government regardless of whether the party that sponsored him has a majority of seats in parliament. While it is not a must to belong to a political party in order to vote, membership of and voting for a political party ensures that:
(1) You will be able to nominate candidates to run for different positions in the country, in
      constituencies, in locations and wards.
(2) The party with the best policies will win more seats and therefore influence the passing of laws.
(3) Even if your party does not form the government it will make sure that there is an active
     parliament that puts people first. An opposition party strengthens the parliament and makes the
     exchange of lively ideas possible.
VOTING PROCEDURE</h>
How to Vote
The most important stage in the whole electoral process is voting. Many people are confused as to what to do when they go to the polling station.
What do You Need in Order to Vote?
1. A voters card
2. An identity card
3. Ballot papers marked with the official stamp
* There will be three ballot papers. One is for presidential, one for parliamentary and one for civic elections. The election of the president, MPs and councillors will take place on the same day.
* The ballot papers will have names of all the political parties and the candidates. It will also have the candidate's photograph and a space where voters will mark their choice of candidate and party.
Your electoral number or the number on the voter's card has to be entered on each of the three ballot papers. Make sure that your ballot papers have been stamped with the official stamp. If your ballot papers don't have your electoral number or are not stamped, they will be rejected as spoilt votes.
What Do You Do at the Polling Booth ?
1. Secretly mark your choice of candidate for;
* President
* Member of Parliament
* Councillor
2. Make sure you do not mark your ballot papers outside the provided space.
3. Fold your ballot papers carefully so as to conceal your choice.
4. In the presence of the presiding officer, agents of the respective parties and election monitors, put the ballot papers in the ballot boxes.
5. Make sure that you put the correct ballot paper in the right ballot boxes. The boxes will be clearly marked for presidential, parliamentary and civic candidates and will be placed as far as possible from each others.
6. If you are physically disabled, (e.g. blind) or illiterate, it is the duty of the presiding officer to help cast the vote on your behalf. However, you must direct the presiding officer to invite representatives of each candidate to witness the act. The officer must record on the register that the vote was cast in this manner.
7. In case of any problems with the election officials, consult independent election monitors and the candidates' agents who will be present at the polling station.
<h/> How can You Make the Elections Free and Fair?
Previous elections have been spoilt by rigging. In 1988, for instance, candidates with the fewest voters were declared winners through rigging. To ensure that the elections will be free and fair, you should know some of the methods employed in this undemocratic process and if possible, help stop them.
1. Exchanging and adding of ballot boxes at the polling station: This involves filling ballot boxes with ballot papers elsewhere and then transporting them to the polling stations. There, they are either exchanged with or added to the boxes at the polling station to be counted among the genuine votes cast at that particular polling station.
2. Insertion of ballot papers marked elsewhere into the ballot boxes: This is normally done by polling officials who take advantage of ignorance or laxity of voters and agents during the voting exercise.
3. Manipulation of illiterate and disabled voters: In this case, polls officials confuse the victims to either vote for the wrong candidates or vote in a manner that would make the ballot be declared a spoilt paper. 
4. Increasing of number of votes cast: This involves increasing the number of votes cast to exceed the number of voters registered at that particular polling station or the number of votes cast for a particular candidate. This is normally done at the counting centres.
5. Buying and destroying voters cards: This method is used by corrupt and greedy politicians who buy votes from those who are not likely to vote for them and destroying the votes.
6. Bribery and patronage by politicians and their agents: This is a practice that might not be directly obvious and which mainly targets women and women groups. This might be in form of <ea/>harambee for women projects, offers of patronage and sending of goodwill delegations to the homes of politicians. At times, this form of bribery is conducted by women leaders acting as agents of particular politicians.
<-_Whats><+_What's> Your Duty as a Voter to Prevent Rigging?
1. Be alert and report malpractices immediately.
2. Where possible, accompany the ballot boxes to the counting centres.
3. Assist the blind and illiterate or ensure that those who assist them are regarded as neutral by all
   parties.
4. Check that the number of votes cast at your polling station does not exceed the number of
   registered voters.
5. Never be influenced to exchange your voting card for money and other commodities like sugar or
   tea. If you elect those who use corrupt ways to win votes you are your own enemy. Eventually you will end up with a bad government.
HOW DO YOU ORGANIZE?
Women are expected to participate fully and equally with men in the unfolding political process following the introduction of multi-partism. But this has not been the case because the emerging male dominated opposition parties have not been ready or eager to appreciate or acknowledge the important role women have played in this change.
Rather than incorporate women in the mainstream, the opposition parties appear bent on sidelining women in ineffective women's wings merely to boost the parties' membership. Few women, if any, have been incorporated in interim steering committees. 
Action Network
Women have therefore to look for other venues to articulate their interests and lobby for support for issues that concern them. There is need to establish broad based and popular networks through which women can influence policy matters and create an informed women electorate. This can be done at various levels.
(a) Individual to Individual:
This is where women are encouraged to exchange ideas among themselves and to solve common problems collectively. Their basic objective is to give individual women confidence and assertiveness in dealing with problems special to them. This <-/interraction> also helps spread awareness, without which women cannot take action against oppressive conditions.
W2D002K
FIRST-AID FOR POISONING
It is important to remember that almost any substance taken in excess, including prescription drugs, can be toxic. Children are poisoned from a comparatively small amount of such poisonous substances.
Poisons can enter the body in different ways. The commonest method is by deliberate or accidental ingestion. Some can cause poisoning by entering the body through the skin or by breathing their fumes or vapours.
Certain poisons can cause serious toxic features, several hours or sometimes a few days or even months, after poisoning. Therefore, even when a small quantity of a poison has been taken, spilled over the skin or inhaled, the patient must be seen by a qualified medical person. Remember, even a teaspoon of some poisons such as concentrated pesticides, if swallowed, can cause death.
Clinical features of poisoning vary depending on the type of poison, its concentration, and whether it is taken by mouth or spilled over the skin or inhaled.
Common Early Features of Poisoning
Burning pain of mouth and throat, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, frothing from mouth or nose, difficulty in breathing, slow or rapid breathing, burning pain of skin or eyes, blurred vision, increase or decrease of pulse rate, muscle twitching, fits, headaches, small pupils, dizziness, and loss of consciousness.
The first aid mentioned here should be given if there is a delay in seeking medical advice or in transport of the victim to the nearest hospital. 
PREVENTION OF POISONING
Poisoning from  chemicals can be prevented by giving proper attention to the cautionary measures listed below.
HOUSEHOLD POISONS
	All containers should have safety closures. 
	Medicines, insecticides and rodenticides should be stored in a locked cabinet. 
	Poisons should neither be stored in empty food containers nor beverage bottles . 
	Lye, polishes, kerosene and other household chemicals should not be left on a low shelf, nor on the floor. They should be stored outside kitchens and away from bathroom  shelves.
	Poisons should not be left in drinking glasses. 
	Combustible items should be kept in adequately vented cupboards. 
	Inhalation of spray and fumes must be prevented during the application of paint and insecticides.
	Unwanted toxic substances, such as unused medicines, should be poured down a drain or flushed down a toilet.
	Before taking any medicine, carefully check the label 
	Do not put different tablets, nor pills, in the same container. 
EDUCATION
	Parents must be made aware of the dangers present in medicine and household
	chemicals. A poison label should appear on all dangerous medicines. Combinations of different drugs with or without alcohol may increase the hazard.
	Parents must begin to teach children at an early age of the dangers of touching, eating and playing with medicines, pesticides, household chemicals and plants. They should never refer to flavoured drugs as chocolate/candy, nor should they make the giving of a medication a game.
AGRICULTURAL POISONS
	 Poisons must be stored in well-marked containers, and preferably under lock and key.
	Mixtures of poisons with flour or cereals must not be stored near food.
	Sweet mixtures that may be tempting to children, are the most dangerous. Warning labels on such mixtures should be obvious. To help illiterate persons, such warnings should carry symbols or illustrations.
	Emptied containers must be burned immediately. Cans should be opened before burning.
	Do not store in food containers nor beverage bottles.
PROTECTIVE CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
	Use masks and exhaust ventilation during dry mixing.
	Wear protective clothing, goggles, and oil-resistant gloves when prolonged handling of poisons, like petroleum oils or other organic solvents, is necessary. Protective clothing should be removed and exposed skin washed thoroughly before eating.
	To prevent skin contamination and inhalation, wear protective clothing, respirators, goggles and gloves during preparation and use of sprays, mists, and aerosols.
	On completion, protective clothing should be removed and exposed skin thoroughly washed.
OTHER PROTECTIVE MEASURES
	Always spray downwind. If wind velocity is insufficient, spraying should be discontinued to avoid contact with the mist.
	In a closed area where an insecticide <-/vapouriser> is being operated, avoid exposure for more than eight hours per day.
	<-/Vapourisers> should never be used in living quarters or where food is stored, prepared, and served.
	Do not apply chlorinated or phosphate ester insecticides where body contact with residues is likely to occur.
	Food and forage plants should not be sprayed with insecticides unless the procedure used has been clearly shown not to leave a residue above tolerance limits.
INDUSTREAL CHEMICALS
ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROLS
	 Dust-forming operations must be conducted in closed systems with local exhaust ventilation. Ordinary room ventilation is not sufficient to control air contamination.
	 Spilled dust should be removed by vacuum cleaning.
	Sweeping should be done only with wet or oiled sweeping compounds.
	Spilled liquids should be removed by flushing.
	Room ventilation should be provided by fresh air.
	Wherever possible, less toxic substances should be substituted.
	Control of temperature should be provided where decomposition to dangerous by-products is possible.
ADEQUATE MEDICAL PROGRAMME
	Workers in hazardous occupations must be examined every six to twelve months. This is necessary for early detection of any chemical induced health problem.
	Facilities should be inspected on a regular basis (weekly or monthly) in order to detect failures and inadequacies in control methods.
SUICIDAL POISONING
Suicidal poisoning can be prevented if the individuals at risk can be identified. This is possible through the recognition of suicidal tendencies. Suicidal poisoning is a very common episode in most of our communities.
Recognition of Suicidal tendencies
The following are some of symptoms of suicidal victims:
	Insomnia or lack of sleep.
True insomnia may be an early <-/sympton> of depression. The patient is unable to sleep or may wake-up during the night or early in the morning, and be unable to go back to sleep.
	Anorexia or lack of appetite
The patient may have a striking history of weight loss and may complain that food no longer tastes "good", or that it tastes like "straw".
	Lack of interest in surroundings.
The patient shows no interest in occupation, friends, nor hobbies . This person may quit a job and at the same time profess an interest in continuing the same type of work.
Medical evaluation
An evaluation should be made of every patient who mentions suicide attempts or is depressed. Hospitalisation may be necessary for proper evaluation. In most cases, a psychiatrist's evaluation is the best option.
Prevention
Persons who have made unsuccessful attempts at suicide should have adequate follow-up psychiatric therapy. 
DRUGS IN PREGNANCY
	Self-administration of drugs and chemicals should be discouraged during the childbearing year, as pregnancy may not be recognised during the important first trimester; the period when the fatal injury commonly occurs.
	All drugs, including prescription drugs, over-the-counter drugs, alcohol, tobacco and caffeine (coffee) should be avoided in the first trimester of pregnancy, unless maternal needs override the hazard to the foetus.
	Most of the drugs and chemicals taken by the mother appear in breastmilk to some extent. Some of these have little effect on the nursing infant. For example, heroin addiction in the mother has been reported to induce addiction in the nursing infant, and ingestion of pesticides has caused serious poisoning in nursing infants. In order to ascertain the safety of any chemical during pregnancy please consult your pharmacist or physician. 

FIRST-AID MEASURES  IN POISONING
The following summary is intended to guide the layman on how to respond to a poisoning emergency. With the exceptions noted under ingested poison, any of these procedures can be carried out by lay persons.
In all cases of poisoning do the following:
a. Remove all contaminated clothing. If the poison has been spilled over the face or body, wash thoroughly with soap and water.
b. Till transport is arranged, rest the patient. Reassure him. Say that he will feel better when he is admitted to the hospital and treated.
c . Take the bottle or the packet of poison to the hospital and hand it over to the doctor. Identification of the poison correctly, is essential for quick and effective treatment.
d. 	If the patient is semi-conscious or unconscious, turn him to the left side. Keep the head low if possible. This will prevent any <-/vomitus> entering air passages.
FIRST-AID FOR INHALATION
Poisonous fumes, gases or vapours can cause poisoning by inhalation. Move the patient away from further exposure. 
* See previous reference a to d.
FIRST-AID FOR INGESTION
If the patient is vomiting, encourage it by giving one or two glasses of water to drink. If the patient is not vomiting, try to induce vomiting . This can be done by asking the patient to put two fingers deep into the mouth and tickle the back of the throat with the fingers . In a child, you may do it carefully with your fingers. Give large quantities of water to drink even after vomiting. 
Vomiting can be induced by Syrup of Ipecac, which is an efficient emetic. If there are no contra-indications, to induce vomiting give Ipecac, as mentioned below, followed by one to two glasses of water. If the patient has not vomited after twenty minutes, the dose can be repeated.
Deaths have been reported when liquid extract of Ipecac had been given by mistake for syrup of Ipecac. Please note the difference. If in doubt of  these two preparations, consult your pharmacist or physician.
	DO NOT induce vomiting if the poison contains kerosene or a similar petroleum product, or if the poison is a corrosive such as concentrated acetic acid (rubber acid), sulphuric acid (battery acid) or ammonia.
	DO NOT induce vomiting or give water to drink, if the consciousness of the patient is impaired or if he is having fits.
	DO NOT give salt water, alcoholic drink, soda, coconut milk or anything else to drink. Give plenty of water or substances mentioned in this book.
FIRST AID FOR SKIN CONTAMINATION
The poison may be absorbed through the skin, if spilled. Remove all contaminated clothing and wash the affected area thoroughly with soap and water for ten minutes. 
* DO NOT apply oils, medicines or any other liquid over the skin. 
* See previous reference b to d
FIRST AID FOR EYE CONTAMINATION
Certain poisons can cause redness or swelling of the eyes or even blindness. If eyes  are contaminated, wash the eyes with water for ten minutes. Water can be poured with a glass, bucket or used straight from a tap. The patient himself or preferably somebody else, should hold the eyelids apart, as the normal reaction of the victim is to close the eyes.
DO NOT put any drugs, liquids or oils in the eyes without medical advice.  
* See previous reference a to d.
 Remember, poisoning may affect any person in your household or work place in the same manner, and may even cause death. Therefore, take all possible precautions to prevent another episode. Keep all potential toxic substances under lock and key.
DO NOT store unnecessary chemicals, drugs nor pesticides at home. 
How to look after a poisoned patient outside hospital
This section describes how to look after someone who has been poisoned if there is a delay in getting to a health centre, hospital or local doctor. This is what you do after you have given first aid, examined the patient and found out what happened.
First it tells you what to do if someone has swallowed poison. Sometimes you can give medicine to try to get the poison out of the body and stop severe poisoning.
Then the section describes the special care you can give if the patient
W2D003K
HOW TO STUDY EFFECTIVELY
Physical Conditions for Study
As you go through your course make sure that you have convenient physical facilities for study. Do not wait until examinations are around the corner. You will need a quiet place, well lit. What is convenient for one person might not be for another. However you should be able to assess what is suitable for you. You can as well walk a distance to a good study place rather than waste time where there are distractions. The library is not always the best place for study since people walk in and out and make noONoise made by people or TV or radio is <-/distractive>. It is very difficult for one to concentrate on studies in an environment where every one else is making merry or chatting over a TV programme. Also, if you have young children at home who could distract your attention then you should select a more suitable place away from home.
It is not possible to give suggestions that suit everyone concerning study skills. There will be differences depending on individual needs and conditions. For example, some students are day scholars while others are boarders. They cannot draw similar programmes for study. Each person must plan according to his situation. Here are general requirements that apply to all.
Study needs a lot of self-discipline. One must make an effort to keep to his plans. He must show determination in whatever he is doing. Planning must be done early and study habits formed early in the course.
Use of Timetable
Tabling time means organizing yourself to use your time efficiently. It refers to arranging what will be done at what time. The timetable helps you to distribute time appropriately for all subjects without neglecting some. You need a lot of self-discipline to keep to your study time-table. For example, there is no need studying for one week and then relaxing during the next two. Good study habits involve working consistently and regularly. If you devote three hours per day to private study, you should do SOnce you have identified times for study, you should then deal with a subject at a time. Always begin with those subjects which you find difficult to understand or those which need more concentration. If you have a morning session of study, such subjects should be studied early in the morning and other subjects which can be done in a fairly relaxed mood can be studied later in the day.
Understanding and Thought
When you sit down to study, you must try to understand what you are doing. If you understand your purpose for study, then you will make every effort to grasp what you are studying. Do not rush and move on to the next topic before you understand what you have read. This will force you to come back to it later and will cause delay in completing your syllabus. If you rush you are likely to forget what you read soon and it is not going to be useful to you in future.
Note-making
It is important that you make brief notes as you read. It is assumed that during your course you have been making notes from classroom work and other references and textbooks. The brief notes referred to above should be what you can refer to at the last minute to examinations, or between examination sessions. These should be only brief facts and ideas and are useful because when examinations begin  there will be no time to peruse your notes and textbooks. Also, if your examination timetable goes on for abSSelf Testing is a way of finding out if you understand what you are reading. You should do this from time to time. Some textbooks have testing exercises at the end of the units and you can also have Past Paper questions set on a particular topic which you are reading to test yourself with. If you are in school, your teacher will probably give you and discuss with you questions which you are likely to be asked on particular topics. You can always consult your teacher but he will advise you not to rely on pTEffective study requires:
* Self discipline
* Planning
* Good physical conditions
* Knowledge of syllabus
* Correct choice of books
* Concentration and thought
* Good note-making
* Self testing
Know Your Syllabus
The first step to take in your study is to know your syllabus. The syllabus can be described as the outline of the work planned to be done per subject during a course. It is important that you know what you are expected to study in each subject. This should be discovered very early in the course. Try to understand the purpose for studying each subject and also the relationship between the different subjects. For example, you need to know the Geography of a place in order to understand the History of that UIt must be noted, however, that the syllabus is only the summary of a course and details of the subjects must be identified by the teacher or the student. Several people have difficulty in dealing with a complete course line. They can score very well when dealing with portions of the syllabus, for example, during class assessments but then when faced with a whole syllabus then they get caught up. Please note that your final examinations will be a test of the whole course work and so you must cover it all.TOnce you know your syllabus, tick areas covered as you study and if any sections remain uncovered, come back and complete them since your examinations will not be on sections of the syllabus but on the whole syllabus. You can lose a lot of marks in the examination if you can only attempt one part of the question asked and not the other because you failed to tackle the latter during study.
Finally, it must be emphasized that the syllabus is only an outline of your course. The details of your subject study will be covered in class, through use of textbooks and other sources of information on the subject. Also knowledge of the syllabus for every subject you are studying for examinations is important because this will help you to plan for your revision and to know how much time you need  to cover the syllabus. 
LOOKING UP INFORMATION
Apart from the normal class lessons, you will need to look up information
on particular topics outside the class work. You cannot rely on class if you want to achieve spectacular results in a subject. The time spent in class for each topic is very short since a syllabus has to be completed in time. In fact what is really going to be useful to you in life is what you have worked out yourself rather than what you have been given on a plate. For this reason, it is important that a student should know where and how to look up information on specific subjects.
Textbooks
For every subject, the Ministry of Education recommends textbooks to be used. This would be considered as the core text and it would be necessary to buy one. However, you need not buy every other textbook on the subject if you do not have the resources. You can borrow from libraries or friends. There is no point keeping textbooks which you do not read. Most of the textbooks are designed for a year's course. If the year elapses before you read it, there will hardly be time to read it as you will be dealingTAs said earlier, there will always be a core-textbook recommended for every subject but you will need to look up other books as well in order to be better informed. Your teacher will be willing to give you a list of recommended books on specific topics. If you do not follow a topic well, ask your teacher for a reading list on that topic. Some good textbooks also have a bibliography at the back of them or at the end of the units. These could also be useful.
It is necessary that certain terms used in your textbooks be understood. The following are examples: 
Table of Contents
This gives you a quick guide to what each chapter is dealing with. Always look at the content section of a book. 
Footnotes
Some textbooks have footnotes at the bottom of a particular page. Always look up such information.
Appendix
You should be able to find information on a particular topic quickly through use of appendix.
Index
The index is a list, in alphabetical order, of all the facts, people, etc. which are referred to in a book. When searching for specific details about individual items in a text, the efficient use of an index can save you a lot of time so that you can refer to a large number of books on that particular area of study in a short time.
Remember that the library is the best source of information. Make a point of visiting one regularly. You can look up a large number of books dealing with any subject in your library so long as you know how to look for the information. You must learn to use the library Catalogue as well.
Use of Bibliography
A bibliography is a list of books concerning a particular subject. It provides a list of books for further reading so that the reader knows where to find more information on the subject read. The bibliography gives the title of book, author, publisher and date of publication. Many good books have a bibliography written at the end of them or sometimes at the end of every chapter.
W2D004K
EFFECTIVE SMALL BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
1. HELLO! MR. SMALL BUSINESSMAN
It is for you, Mr. Small Businessman, that we have written this guide 'EFFECTIVE SMALL BUSINESS MANAGEMENT'. You may be technically very efficient in your product or service speciality yet the success of your business depends on how effectively you are able to manage your business. Effective business management requires the practice of quite a number of principles and precepts. It also needs the acceptance of professional ideas.
Your great role
  Your business is important to everybody in the country. In the first place it helps create employment even if that is only one job. This country needs as many employment opportunities as can be found. In running a small business you are reducing the unemployment problem in the country. Your business is important to the economy than you may be thinking. All small businesses in this country together produce goods and services that meet the needs of millions of consumers. You also help increase production  2. IDENTIFYING BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
  Business management begins when you have started a business. Identification of business opportunities is the foundation for starting a business. Your ability to manufacture a product, or offer a service becomes the source of further business opportunities. Correct identification of business opportunities is one of the most important ingredients of business success. So give it very serious consideration.
  To begin with, you have to identify your own skills and business desires. Skills refer to your area of education and training background. The products you want to offer may be related to these areas. If you have had any kind of training it is advisable to locate business opportunities related to that particular training since you have developed the expertise in an area of your choice. What others, like you, are doing also helps to identify business opportunities. For example, if a friend of yours is a t   A common question asked by those who have had no special training is what business opportunities are available for them? The answer to this question is that business opportunities are many and varied. One can take up retailing like running a grocery kiosk, selling newspapers, house to house selling, running a poultry farm; selling curious, second hand dresses, books, or for that matter even selling eggs. And if you have the necessary capital and/or expertise, manufacturing.
  Another important thing to consider is how relevant and desirable to you the area of your choice is. If you are very much interested in the business you will definitely be highly motivated to do your best. So before you invest your money and spend a lot of energy on a business enterprise, think seriously whether you like the particular area.
  The market situation will also help you to identify business opportunities. It could be in the village or town where you were born, or in another part of the country. Studying the local or national market can  help you identify good business opportunities. If you are not clear in this exercise you can get help from your friends, relatives or from a specialist consultant. Finding out what products or services have a ready market can be a great help in identifying business opportunities. K-MAP can provide3  Once you have identified business opportunities you must engage in market study. This is to analyse the market to find out details about the product or services you want to make or provide. Details include things like the type of product or service that will have a good demand, product or service mix, and who your potential customers are? Where they are. What is the quantity you can sell? What will be the acceptable, reasonable, profitable and appealing prices? How the product or service should be moved - Whether it is worthwhile to engage in the business line you have identified.
- What materials, tools and equipment - and in what quantities - are required to run the business.
- How much money will be required to start and run the business.
- The sales volume that you will be able to realise.
- The cash flow for a given period of time.
- Profit for a particular period of time.
- The location of the market.
- The strength of the market.
- The best and most effective ways of reaching the market.
- The most satisfying and profitable way of distributing the products/services.
- The right price to charge.
- The right product or service mix.
Marketing
  Before you go into business you should establish whether there is a market for what you want to sell and the nature and extent of that market.
  It pays to remember what a market is. A market is people. A market comprises of people with income which they are willing to spend on the type of product you intend to produce.
  The information you get from the market study (also called market survey or market research) must be used in marketing your product. It is in your interest to satisfy market requirements in the business line you have identified, for that is the best way to earn reasonable profit. This involves the production of the right product, offering of the right service, providing the product or service at the right place at the right time, in the right product (service) mix, and finally selling at the right price 4. PLANNING
  Planning is a very important management function. And to become successful it is very important to remember that you are the one responsible for planning your business. Whether you are going to start a new enterprise or whether you will continue operating the current business, or expand it, is something that has to be properly planned.
  True, you may be able to get advice from others, but it is you to make your business a success. Thus you have to be seriously involved in its planning.
  Planning is how you want to realise what you want to achieve. If you want to start business you should know things like what quantity you can produce or buy for sale within a given period of time, how much it will cost to produce or buy etc. If you wish to set up a business, decide the type of enterprises and do the following.
- Write down the different items you require.
- Find out the cost and prepare an estimate. You can call this an expenditure budget. This is very important and directly affects your preparation of an accurate budget.
The benefits of a good plan/budget
  An accurate budget will help you in many ways:
- It will give you a correct picture of the amount of money you will require to spend in order to start and run the business, or it will show you how much money will be needed to operate the business over a given period of time, like a month.
- It will help you to look for ways and means of raising money or credit.
- It will help you to organise ways and means of cutting losses.
- It will help you to calculate profits over a period of time.
It is necessary to prepare an expenditure budget for any kind of business - manufacturing, service or farming.
- Find out how much it will cost to produce one unit or provide one service. This can be done with the help of a production budget or service operation budget.
- Estimate how many units you can produce within a given period of time under normal circumstances.
- Deliver the products in the most effective way you can.
If you are already in business, do the following:
- Think out what you want your business to bring next year, e.g. Sales Shs. 50,000/-.
- Think and write down the ways you can get this sales volume.
- Think of the cost of getting the sales target.
- Calculate the profit you can earn.
When thinking of the above points, concentrate on the following areas of your business:
1. Sales
2. The direct costs
3. The indirect costs
  It is necessary to estimate these three areas as accurately as possible so that you have a clear idea of the profit you are going to earn. When you have run your business for sometime it is possible to make realistic estimates of future sales.
When you know the three areas well it becomes helpful to:
- Estimate the profit you will make
- Plan to reduce costs
- Plan to raise money when necessary
- Plan to do whatever may be necessary to realise the sales target.
5. COSTING
  Costing is the method you use to calculate how much each product or service costs to produce (or provide) and sell. It is very necessary for you to know your costs as accurately as possible. Otherwise you could be selling below cost without knowing; and this would mean making losses, or even ruin of your business.
Benefits of Costing
- Helps to set prices
- Helps to find out which inputs are most or least expensive
- Helps in assessing how well any new strategy to improve your business is working.
- Helps to adjust profit margins. This is very important when you are faced with competition.
  Before you think of costing one product or one service job, you must calculate the total costs. In order to do this you must keep a record of all the costs. Book-keeping can help you here. To know the total costs you must know the different types of costs. In your business there are two types of costs.
(i) Direct costs: material cost + labour costs
(ii) Indirect costs: costs you incur on all the other items in running your business such as building, machines and tools and their maintenance, replacements and repair
Included in indirect costs are also
- salaries paid to you and others not directly involved in production
- office costs such as telephone, postage and stationery.
* Selling costs other than salaries, interests charges and licences etc. also fall into the indirect costs bracket.
W2D005K
INTRODUCTION TO INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS SUMMER PROGRAMME 
The International Students Summer Programme at Kenyatta University was instituted by the Vice-Chancellor in July, 1995. The need for the programme came as a result of enquiries from many universities in the United States of America <Oparticipate in the summer programme.
The Vice-Chancellor appointed a committee comprising mostly of the Chairmen of Departments of the Faculty of Arts and all the Deans of Faculties of Arts, Commerce, Education, Environmental Studies and Science. The Committee was chaired by Prof <name/>.
The main tasks of the committee was to develop the curriculum, determine costs/fees, duration of the programme,<O/>credit hours to be earned, and the mode of application. The Committee was able to address itself to the main tasks assigned to it and come up with what the committee considered to be a viable summer programme for international students:
On discussion and approval by Senate, it is hoped that the proposed seminar programme for international students will be converted into a brochure for dissemination in North American 
Universities and in other universities in other parts of the world.
Objectives of the Summer Programme
The following are the objectives of the Summer Programme for International Students:
-To provide an enabling environment for international cultural exchange programmes and institutional affiliations. 
-To provide the academic atmosphere for direct interactive learning through lectures, travels, interviews, observations and participation.
-To provide the opportunity for international students to meet and interact with some of the most experienced African scholars in Africa.
-To provide an atmosphere for a better understanding of African issues through direct experience and first hand information.
It is expected that by the end of the summer programme, participants should be able to articulate some of the African issues.
Deadline for Applications
Duly filled application form with all the necessary documents should reach Kenyatta University on or before 15th April.
Credit Hours
All courses will be of three semester credits. Students will therefore be required to complete 50 hours of lectures for each of the courses in each session. This means that students will have at least 2 hours of lectures per day, i.e. 10 hours per week.
FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS
The following are some of the expenses to be met:
i)	 Application Fee -  $ 10 (not refundable)
ii) Tuition 	-  $ 250 per course per session
iii) 	Registration Fee -  $ 10
iv) Library 	-  $ 50
v) 	Examination -  $ 20 per course
vi) 	Room and Board -  $ 350 per session
viii) 	Transport/Field Courses -  $ 50 (where applicable)
The mechanics of punctuation: comma, colon and semi-colon, quotation marks. Writing various types of essays: attention <-/toparagraph> structure, fiction, non-fiction, poetic forms of writing.
ISSP/AEN/303 BILINGUALISM AND LANGUAGE CONTACT
The notion of applied linguistics in relation to language teaching, learning and acquisition. Theoretical perspectives: <-/cothrastive> analysis, behaviourism, error analysis, Innateness and The emergence of interlanguage. The role of the language environment in language acquisition: The learner's characteristics: effects of Li, age, personality, motivation. The internal processing theories; the performance analysis form and interpretation of interlingual constructions. Order of Acquisition and interlanguISociolinguistic implications of multilingualism in East Africa national and regional language policies. Language and human <-/interation>. Bilingualism and multilingualism. Speech
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
ISSP/FA/201 A SURVEY OF TRADITIONAL AND CONTEMPORARY ARTS OF EAST AFRICA WITH SPECIAL ATTENTION TO KENYAN ART
This course will explore the different art forms of East Africa through lectures, and field studies. It will examine the various traditional art forms and contemporary works through field trips and interviews with practising artists in Kenya.
ISSP/FA/301 A CRITICAL STUDY OF TOURIST ORIENTED ART IN KENYA
Tourism is a major promoter of Art in Kenya. The course will examine the various aspects of tourist oriented art with a view of evaluating their contributions to the world of Art
in Africa. It will involve lectures and a lot of field trips to enable direct contact with the artists and the works produced.
ISSP/FA/302 WOMEN'S PARTICIPATION IN ART IN KENYA
Women play very important roles in art-production in Kenya. But this has not been studied and properly documented. This course will study the role of women in art production and distribution through field course, observations and interviews.
ISSP/FA/303 A CROSS-CULTURAL EXPLORATION OF AFRICAN CULTURE THROUGH PRINTMAKING
The course will include; an Introduction, Field Survey involving visits to cultural sites/institutions and literature review. An finally the Studio Work which will be student-initiated. The projects will be inspired and supported by the preliminary field studies. The printing should involve any one or a combination of various printmaking methods, but preferably relief printing.
The course is preferably for the level and above. (Undergraduate). It will be a practical <-/oriencted> course,
The course will train students on the above handweaving related technique. It will enable the students to perceive this as a useful technique for the creation of contemporary utilitarian and aesthetic products.
ISSP/FA/305 INDEPENDENT STUDY ( SPECIAL TOPICS) 
3. Geography Department
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
ISSP/AG/202 GEOGRAPHY OF EAST AFRICA
The physical environment: its resources and its constraints. Relief, geology and drainage, with particular reference to East African Rift Valley Systems; climate, vegetation, soils, animal and insect life. The problem of aridity in the East African environment.
The human component: the language groups of the peoples of East Africa, population distribution and dynamics; agricultural and pastoral, traditional and modern land use systems, manufacturing, mining, energy and tourism, transport and urbanization.
ISSP/AG/301 RURAL PERIODIC MARKET SYSTEMS IN AFRICA WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO KENYA
Theory of internal trade and its applications. Market-place systems and market-place trade origins, development and change; urban market place systems and mobile vendors rural periodic market systems. Case studies of market centres and retail distribution and periodic market exchange systems samples from Africa, Asia and Latin America.
Contemporary problems and development issues in marketing geography of Kenya and other African countries such as market place analysis with reference to specific regions market place exchange and regional development, the role of the market place in distribution of food, agricultural inputs and information. Analysis of wholesale and retail distribution in selected African countries. Analysis of marketing boards and co-operatives. Characteristics of trade between African countries and other regions of the IReview of population distribution and density and the spatial factors influencing the distribution, population characteristics, population change and redistribution; patterns of rural settlements, recent changes in rural settlement patterns, distribution and growth of towns and cities and problems of rapid urbanisation.
Swahili peoples and culture.
Syntax: - simple sentence constructions.
Basic reading: simple sentences and short text etc.
ISSP/APH/201 AFRICAN PHILOSOPHY
This course introduces students to the meaning and nature of an African system of thought referred to as 'African philosophy': It acquaints them with the ideas, works and personalities connected with this system of thought. It further trains the students to develop and use critical
skills to judge and justify this system of thought, Finally, the course <-/enagles> the students to appreciate the relevance of African thought in the world cultures.
ISSP/APH/202 <-/PHILISOPHY> OF AFRICAN INDIGENOUS EDUCATION
This course identifies and examines basic assumptions and principles that govern <-/Afeican> 
Indigenous Education in its content, methods scope and purpose. It takes, as its starting-point, conclusions made, by disciplines such as anthropology, sociology, religion and history on African Indigenous Education. The course then critically examines these ideals and <-/conlusions> in order to justify, moderate and explain them. Lastly, the course suggests ways
how that past and the present; the traditional and the modern can coordinate and enrich each other..
ISSP/APH/203 AFRICAN SOCIAL POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY
This course consists of an application of Philosophy, especially ethical principles, to social and political life of the Africans. The course portrays ideologies and practices that quality African society in its social and political dimensions. It goes to evolve Fundamental
principles from these ideologies. The course then employs these principles to justify and explain <-/surrent> social political issues in Africa.
ISSP/APH/204 AFRICAN WISDOM AND <-/LIGIC>
The course is meant to examine the African concept of wisdom sagacity by logical analysis. It portrays three forms of manifestations of African wisdom, namely mythology, dance (song) and proverbs.
ISSP/ARS/201 AFRICAN INDIGENOUS RELIGION
A survey of various African peoples, their origin, religious heritage, world view, civilization and contribution to humanity. Religion as a social cultural factor, its role and future in African society will be critically assessed and evaluated.
ISSP/ARS/202 AFRICAN MARRIAGE AND FAMILY STRUCTURES
Cross-cultural studies of indigenous and contemporary forms of African marriage and family: Systems of kinship, descent adoption and inheritance. Procreation beliefs, attitudes and practices, conceptual issues such as: endogamy, exogamy, polygamy, bride-wealth, patriarchy and matriarchy in view of present social, economic and religious changes will be discussed.
ISSP/ARS/203 AFRICAN INDIGENOUS RITES OF PASSAGE AND EDUCATION
Critical analysis of various rites of passage: birth, initiation, marriage, elderhood, death and <-/ancentorhood>. Functions of these rites, their significance and challenge to modern system of education will be examined and assessed.
ISSP/ARS/204 AFRICAN THEOCENTRIC BELIEF AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERNS
A contemporary re-evaluation of African indigenous relationship to Nature exemplified in such concepts as: belief in the phenomenon of power and order in the universe; theocentric evolutions; ancestral veneration; religious objects, places and celebrations. Traditional belief in ethical obligation to nature, respect for and dialogue with nature will be religiously assessed against humanity's superiority for or against natural environment.
ISSP/EPS/401	 Cross-cultural Psychology
An introduction to cross-cultural psychology, with emphasis on what accounts for similarities and differences in human behaviour.
ISSP/EPS/402 Multi-Cultural Counselling
Universal principles of counselling in terms of human needs and problems. Understanding the ethnic-cultural differences and variations of various groups and tribes. The course also focuses an special techniques in counselling people of different cultures such as:- use of non-verbal behaviour, verbal expressive - cultural attitudes and beliefs of different people of the world about psycho-emotional problems.
ISSP/EPS/403	 Social Change and Modernization
A psychological approach to social change as an area of study. Major concepts and processes in the area of social change will be covered in a general but thorough fashion.
ISSP/SC/203 INTRODUCTION TO CHEMISTRY OF TRANSITION ELEMENTS
Types of ligands; carbonyls, phosphines, - bonding in hydrocarbons and stabilization of unusual oxidation states. Nomenclature, isomerism and coordination number of complexes. The effective atomic number; the eighteen - election rule. Valence bond theory; crystal, field and adjusted crystal field theory. Free ion terms; weak and strong field approaches. Tanabe - Sugano energy-level diagrams.
Usefulness and limitations of the above theories in the interpretation of electronic spectra and magnetic properties of transition metal complexes. Practical work to include measurement of magnetic susceptibilities of selected complexes, a study of the electronic spectra of first row transition series, preparation of selected coordination complexes.
ISSP/SC/206 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY II
A general review of nomenclature of a cyclic and <-/acyclic> organic compunds. Homolytic and heterolytic bond fission.
Solubility product and thermodynamic functions; free energy, enthalpy and enthalpy and entropy from emf measurements. Concentration cells with and without liquid juctions. Potentiometric titrations. Amperometry, chronopotentiometry, <-/decompostion> potentials and discharge of ions, overvoltage; polarography. Practicals will include measurements of emf of cells, conductivity, vapour pressures. Conductometric titrations, potentiometric titrations; reaction rate and orders of reactions.
ISSP/SZS/408	 IMMUNODEFICIENCIES AND DISEASE SUSCEPTIBILITY
Architectural components of an intact immune system in mammals. Congenital and acquired immunopathological
Kenyatta University offers both undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes in five faculties: Environmental Studies, Commerce, Education, Science and Arts.
The university has established the Bureau of Training and Consultancy (BTC) in order to serve a wider community through provisions of training and consultancy services. The BTC offers courses in the following areas:-
Management
Secretarial
Accounting
Computer
OBJECTIVES OF THE UNIVERSITY
As spelt out in the 1985 Kenyatta University Act, the functions and objectives of the University are:-
-to provide directly or in collaboration with other institutions of  higher learning, facilities for university education including technology and professional education and research.
-to provide and advance university education and training of appropriately qualified candidates leading to the award of degrees, diplomas and certificates and such other qualifications as the University Council and Senate shall from time to time determine and in so doing to contribute to the manpower needs of Kenya. 
W2D006K
DEPARTMENT OF OFFICE MANAGEMENT 
Preamble 
Secretarial Studies Unit has been in existence since 1989 as a result of splitting the former Business Education Department into Economics Department, Business Studies Department and Secretarial Studies Unit.
The Programme
The Unit has prepared a programme that went through the senate 8-4-4 Committee and was approved by the senate.
Objectives
The Unit has two fold objectives; to:
(a) prepare teachers at graduate level for teaching office management skills in Kenyan Secondary Schools and Colleges.
(b) prepare graduate office managers for the Kenyan Industry.
During the 1994/95 academic year, fifty five (55) students graduated from the Unit and currently, 281 students are enrolled in the Unit. The programme has proved to be quite popular with students as graduates have been very marketable both as college teachers and as Administrative Assistants and Personal Assistants.
The name "Office Management" is the one commonly used in universities where similar programmes are offered. Arkansas State University, Kansas State University, University of Tennessee and Montana State University among others use "Office Management" for programmes similar to the one being offered by the Unit.
COURSE DESCRIPTIONS
FIRST YEAR
UCU 100 COMMUNICATION SKILLS
Reading skills: skimming, scanning, intensive and critical reading, interpretation of non-verbal information, content tables, indices, bibliographies, following instructions. Listening skills, understanding lectures, predicting lecture structure, understanding gist, recognizing change of topic, following tutorial discussions, library skills, accessing library collections and utilizing library help services. Collecting and abstracting information: note-taking, note-making, clarification and explanation, giUConcepts of development and underdevelopment. Historic roots of African development and underdevelopment. Development and social change. Socio-economic indicators of development/social change, interplay between development/social change and urbanisation, industrialization, <-/educaiton>, science and technology, medicine, law, politics and administration population etc. Issues in development planning, resource utilization, management and
conservation, project identification, implementation and evaluation. Mobilization of human and physical resources for development/social change, e.g. <ea/>Harambee, women in development. Nature of morality and role of morality in social development/change; human-centred ethics and place of humanity in the natural world. African development in a global context in general and Kenya in particular.
FAU 100 CULTURAL STUDIES
This course will focus on cultural practice in African societies with particular attention paid to the sociological approaches to culture; religion and culture; the role of music as a manifestation of culture; material culture and aesthetic appreciation of verbal, visual and creative arts; oral literature, drama and the role of language in enhancing socio-cultural <-/cohension> of Kenyan society.
EOM 100 BUSINESS COMMUNICATION I
Use of the various aspects of grammar in communication. Application of variety of vocabulary in communication. Writing clearly and concisely for purpose of effective communication. Writing appropriate routine business letters and inter-office memoranda. Taking notes in meetings and summarising speeches and minutes.
EOM 101 INTRODUCTION TO BUSINESS
Concepts, terms and practices of the business environment. Forms of business organization and capital. Basic finance statements:- balance sheets, income statement and funds flow statement, concept and practice of management. Departmentation of business, Aids to trade; insurance, banking, transport and communication, Distribution in trade, Production and location for industries and parastatals.
EOM 102 OFFICE ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES I
Basic documents used in the organization, communication both verbal and written, selection of appropriate office machines, equipment and stationery for various uses. Cataloguing, filing, storage, confidentiality, and general organization of the office.
SECOND YEAR
EOM 200 INTRODUCTION TO TYPEWRITING
The history of Typewriting and its role in the modern office. Mastery of the keyboard by the touch method, development of skills in manipulating the typewriter. Appreciation of the importance of good working habits and procedure for office activities. minimum speed of 30 words per minute will be expected with 3 % error allowance for 5 minutes.
EOM 201 INTRODUCTION TO SHORTHAND
The history of shorthand. The major systems of shorthand in the world. The importance of shorthand as a vocational course. Coverage of the basic Pitman's "New Era" shorthand theory with special emphasis on penmanship. Reading at speed of 100 - 150 words per minute from shorthand notes. Evaluation of shortforms; phrases, and words applying the rules already learnt. Dictation a 60 w.p.m. with 3 % error allowance.
EOM 202 INTERMEDIATE TYPEWRITING
Development of proficiency of straight-copy of varying degrees of difficulty. Display of tabular work in fully blocked and centred styles. Ruling horizontally and vertically in black ink or by means of the underscore. Combination of characters; preparation and use of ink stencils; manuscripts; abbreviations; simple footnotes and common printers correction signs; use of Roman numerals; typing on blank business forms; invoices, statements, form letters, credit notes, purchase orders, telephone message formsEFurther review of theory and rules, mastery of more advanced forms of phrasing, improvement of transcription on the machine. Students will be expected to read from homework at speed of 180 - 200 words per minute and write dictation at 80 words per minute with 3 % error allowance.
THIRD YEAR
EOM 300: ADVANCED TYPEWRITING
Development of a high degree skill in typewriting at a minimum speed of 50 words per minute with 3 % error for 10 minutes. Production or mailable material. Display of business documents such as balance sheet, invoices, statements, application forms and tabulation. Preparation and use of printed forms.
EOM 301: ADVANCED SHORTHAND
Reading plate material at rates of 200 - 250 words and shorthand notes at 160 - 200 words per minute and transcribe them at 3 % error allowance. Transcription of mailable work using a machine. Reinforcement of theory, good working habits and transcription skills.
EOM 302: OFFICE ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES II
Mathematical operations of business transactions. Identification and application of correct procedures in organizational activities to economise on space, funds, time and energy. Accurate maintenance and effective use of accountable records. Human relations.
EOM 303: BUSINESS COMMUNICATION II
Interpreting data from visual presentations. Proofreading and editing written passages. Summarizing reports, speeches, and conversations. Composing proper minutes from verbatim notes. Writing specialized business correspondence, routine and specialized reports, and essays. Composing speeches.
EOM 304: THE LEGAL OFFICE
Development of good work habits in a legal office. Legal office procedures and typing of legal documents. Legal terminologies, phrases and vocabulary. Confidentiality and accuracy in legal office.
Exposure to legal offices, courts and law libraries.
EOM 305: REPORT WRITING
Reports: concepts, purposes and types. Procedures in writing different types of reports. Analysing, understanding, interpreting and summarizing reports.
EOM 306: AUDIO TYPEWRITING
Development of mental alertness and rapid comprehension of words. Development of listening and understanding of recorded materials. Ability to understand and execute recorded instructions. Ability to organise and produce mailable documents.
EOM 307: COMPOSITION ON THE TYPEWRITER
Thinking, organising and translating of ideas into a document on the typewriter. Ability to think clearly and logically. Organising ideas and thoughts into flowing language using correct grammar, <-_punctuations><+_punctuation> and spelling. Composing from brief notes and instructions. Producing a mailable document.
EOM 308: SECRETARIAL DUTIES
Role of secretarial services in an organization. Acquisition of practical experience in operating office machines. Extraction and compilation of relevant information from original sources for quick reference. Integrity and dignity commensurate with responsibility.
EOM 309: THE MEDICAL OFFICE
Development of specialised typewriting skills in a medical office. Mastery of medical terminologies, phrases and vocabulary. Confidentiality and integrity. Exposure to medical institutions.
EOM 310: PERSONAL FINANCE
Economic resources as used by an individual or family unit. Sources of personal finance such as employment, mortgages, hire purchase, overdrafts and loans. Cost of personal finance, selection and use of economic commodities and services, consumer awareness and protection.
EOM 311: OFFICE EXPERIENCE
Attachment to an office for work experience for a period of one semester. The attachment will familiarize the student with the operations of an actual office. Evaluation: Observation at work by lecturers and interviews with supervisor and co-workers.
FOURTH YEAR
EOM 400 WORD PROCESSING
Introduction to computer systems. Programmes and packages for microcomputers. Concepts and importance of Word Processing. Features of a Word Processor, various systems of Word Processing. Forms of display. Text, creation, entry, storage, printing and exit. Basic text editing. Formatting documents. Development of advanced production skills, Data back-up systems. Trouble shooting, Advanced text-editing techniques.
EOM: 401 OFFICE MANAGEMENT
Administrative office skills, Office layout and environment. Office accommodation, Administration Organizational structure, Line and staff functions. Human relations.
EOM: 402 RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Organization of technical offices. Typing technical material from <-/dication>, draft, brief notes or instructions. Editing technical documents.
EOM 404: SECRETARIAL BUREAU MANAGEMENT
Concept of a secretarial bureau, Organization and provision of services. Types of bureaux and their functions. Client management and development.
EOM 405: MANAGEMENT OF STENO LABORATORY
The preparation, recording and editing of materials used in steno laboratory, Operation of the laboratory and care of hardware and the software. Co-ordination of steno laboratory services.
EOM 406: TRENDS AND PROBLEMS IN OFFICE ADMINISTRATION
Trends and challenges in office environment. Office as a focus of an organization. Technological changes and their effects. Storage and security of information. Handling of competing interests in the office.
EOM 407: RESEARCH METHODS
Basic concepts in research. Tools of research and sources of information. Research 
planning, objectives, variables and sampling. Questionnaire design, research proposal, data collection and analysis. Report writing.
EOM 408: RESEARCH PROJECT
Students will be expected to research on an office related topic with the guidance of the department. The student will be required to present a written report.
EOM 409: PUBLIC RELATIONS
Understanding the various publics in the environment. Development, furtherance and maintenance of rapport from each public. Drawing, implementing and evaluating public relations programme.
EOM 410 EXECUTIVE PROFILE DEVELOPMENT
Development of personal and social finesse in preparation of office careers. Emphasis on self-image, professionalism, and social etiquette. Development of the student's job campaign <-/abiliaty>; grooming, preparing for an interview, job retention and personal and professional development.
EOM 411: ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Entrepreneurship development. Characteristics of entrepreneurs. Preparation of business plan. Establishment of business. Business development and expansion.
C. OTHER REQUIREMENTS
1. Fees for credit transfer will be charged per unit.
2. Non-refundable fees of Kshs.200/- and Kshs. 500/- will be paid by Kenyans and non-Kenyans respectively for processing the necessary credit transfer forms.
3. Credit transfer will not be allowed for more than one (1) Academic Year.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE DEANS COMMITTEE ON TEACHING LOAD TO THE SENATE
RECOMMENDED 
1. ACADEMIC YEAR
That an Academic year be taken to mean 2 running semesters of 16 weeks each, leading to a break of 3 months.
2. DEFINITION OF NORMAL TEACHING LOAD
That the normal teaching load should be defined in terms of lecture preparation, research, administration, consultation, 	supervision, reading of thesis/H/work and examining hours.
(Refer to table attached)
3. TUTORIALS
That tutorials should be made mandatory with normal class being of 25 students.
4. LECTURE CLASS
That the normal lecture class be an average of 100 students.
5. PAYMENT FOR EXTRA LOADS
That any teaching load handled over the normal teaching load as defined in Table (Annex A) should be paid for.
6. SUGGESTED RATES FOR EXTRA PAYMENTS
That any extra commitment/Teaching during the break or semester will be compensated for at the following rates.
(1) Undergraduate Kshs. 800.00 per hour
(2) Postgraduate Kshs. 1,000.00 per hour
W2D007K
6. PRICING
  Pricing means deciding for how much you want to sell your product. Correct pricing is very necessary for successful business. On the other hand, wrong pricing can cause losses or help your competitors to undercut you.
  For right pricing you need the following information:-
- Cost of your inputs
- Competitors prices
- How much customers are willing to pay for your kind of product
- How customers evaluate your business. Do the customers look to your business as providing high quality products or services? Have you been accepted as a market leader in the area of your business? In other words have you created a good name or high image as a businessman of integrity?
All these factors affect pricing.
How to price
  The price you set must cover.
Direct costs + Indirect costs + Reasonable profit
When deciding how much to add as profit you must take into consideration all the factors mentioned above as affecting pricing. You should also know to whom you are going to sell, the quantity you can sell and the terms of payment. You can sell to three different types of customers.
- Manufacturers
- Distributors
- Final customers
  You can understand this well if you can take the above example. There the pricing was done assuming you are selling direct to the final customers. But the situation would be different when you want to sell through distributors. Here again the channel of distribution your product might pass through in reaching the final customer has to be known well. You have also to decide if you want to have a control over the final price at which the product should be sold by the retailer to the final customer. If you7Buying is common to all business. Buying is done fore two reasons:
- Buying for use as an input
- Buying for resale at a profit
When buying for use as an input you think of several factors:-
- Whether the material is the right one to make the product of the quality you expect to realise, and costs and amount that ensures you profit given the price you intend to sell your product.
- Whether the tool or equipment is the right one for the purpose.
- If it is for resale, is it the right one in terms of marketing?
- It is also important to know clearly whether you have the facilities to store materials and products that you buy for resale. If you don't have correct storage facilities materials and products can go bad, leading to loss of money.
- You must also know how to handle the materials and products you buy. You should know them very well; and if you don't already know, learn them well before buying to avoid unnecessary losses.
Selling
  The purpose of selling is to satisfy customer requirements and make a profit. The more you sell the greater will be the profit.
To sell well you must:-
- Know your customers well.
- Produce or have goods of the quality they are looking for.
- Charge appropriate prices that are affordable to them and at the same time give you a  reasonable profit.
  Selling must be made very seriously. You must remember the money you have invested in your business comes back with a profit only when you sell, up to that moment your money is tied up in stocks. Actual progress in business starts when a sale has been made. Everything must be done to sell as much as possible at the earliest possible time. Treat your prospects and customers well, answer their questions well and happily, learn to explain the benefits of what you sell, especially when comparing your produc 8. STOCK CONTROL
  Stock control is to have a continuous check on the number and type of materials, parts and goods in your business. Good stock control is very essential for continued production, and sale of goods and services. It helps you avoid shortages that could disrupt your business. It also helps you to avoid too much stocking that could tie up money unnecessarily leading to losses.
  Your business could run out of stock and suffer due to many reasons:
- You have ordered too late
- You have forgotten to order materials, parts or goods to replace those you have used or sold.
- You have not found out the correct re-order level of materials and goods.
  Running out of stock can create a lot of problems:
* can stop production, and this could throw you out of business.
* can cause dissatisfaction to your customers and they may go to your competitors, never to come back.
How to control stock effectively
- Check your stock regularly
- Note carefully the materials and parts you use fast and those used occasionally. If you are only selling note, goods which get sold fast and those which are slow selling. Restock accordingly.
- Arrange the stocks in such a way that you can see and collect them easily.
- Group the items separate into sets for easy identification and selection.
- Maintain a clear record of the stock you are carrying.
  Mr. Small Businessman since you normally stock few items it is easy for you to have a written record. It is easy to check. Never depend on memory since you can forget This record is called a Bin Card. Here you write the details of the items - price, date, particulars, stock balance. This helps you to have a very clear idea of the stock situation and when you should re-order.
9. BOOK-KEEPING
  When you start a business, or you have been running the business for some time, you may seriously think of buying raw materials, producing goods or offering services, buying and selling of goods etc. but you may not think seriously about book-keeping and accounts. It may be due to your belief that raw materials, machines, tools, or buying and selling of goods bring profits, or help run the business, while book-keeping and accounts cannot earn money.
  You may argue that it is the production of goods or providing of services and their sale that earn profit and it is wise to concentrate on such areas. Such arguments reveal wrong understanding of book keeping and accounts. The purpose of book-keeping and accounts is to help you run your business more efficiently and earn good profits or avoid losses by not making wrong decisions. Book-keeping is recording what money you have received, how much money you have spent and how you have spent the money. It is-- Subsidiary books e.g. Cash Book, etc.
  Ledger is the main book used to record and enter all figures arising from your business transactions. It shows how much money goes out and where. The ledger is usually divided into three sections: sales ledger, purchase ledger and general ledger. Maintaining a good book-keeping system is not difficult. If you can write and know to add, subtract, divide and multiply you can learn book-keeping. Good motivation is of course essential.
  Accounts will help you to understand information given in a balance sheet and profit and loss accounts. You will be able to know how the figures have been worked out through book-keeping. You can identify the intentional and unintentional mistakes done by book-keeping, and use of management accounting and financial management also will help you run your business efficiently. So learn them well and make them help you earn good profits.
10. BUSINESS PROMOTION 
Business promotion means to do everything that will help to get sales. Promotion is necessary for any business, especially small business. It is necessary to get back with a profit what you have invested - money and labour - as quickly as possible.
  Promotion helps people to know what you have for sale, and why they should buy your goods or services in preference to those of competitors. You can do a number of things to promote your business:-
1. Design a poster and display it at the entrance to your workshop or shop.
2. Tell everybody whom you contact about your business.
3. Request your customers to tell others the quality and  benefits of your products or services.
4. Make a display of your goods and/or services.
5. Prepare a simple but good hand bill about what you have for sale and distribute this among your customers.
6. Prepare special posters and display them in places where people gather, such as churches, schools, markets, etc.
7. Request your customers, to bring their relatives, friends, etc. to your shop or service centre.
8. Give discounts to regular customers and customers who buy above a certain amount.
9. Make your business popular by producing quality goods and/or services; never cheat your customers for quick money.
10. Develop customer relations by participating in community activities in your area. This will help you to establish good relations with people in your area and help you to sell your goods or service more easily.
11. BUSINESS IS PEOPLE
  It is very important for you to have good relations with your customers and prospects. You buy from people and you sell to people. So, people are your greatest assets. You must remember this always: do everything to keep your customer and prospects satisfied.
  Treat your customer as the most important person for you business. Customers are the heart of your business. If they stop buying from you, your business comes to an end.
What can you do to keep your customers happy?
1. Know your business well; nothing sells like your ability to give full information about your business. It is especially important that your customers know the benefit of your products or services, and the advantage of buying from you, and even associating with you.
2. Be sincere always. Trustworthiness helps to impress customers and prospects. In fact many businesses fail due to lack of this quality. Honesty helps to create faith in you. This brings good business and helps you to become prosperous. Cheating, on the contrary, destroys confidence. Cheating to make quick money makes you unpopular and can cause customers to withdraw from you, and even lead to the collapse of your business.
3. Charge fair prices. Reasonable pricing helps you attract more and more customers. If your prices are too high customers will run away from you, and if there is stiff competition you will soon lose the business. It is very helpful if you can tell your customers why you charge a particular price. People become happy to know that they get value for their money. 
W2D008K
Learn the true secrets of good job hunting
How to start
1. Be a networker
Everyone has contacts. Even if you've been a full time mum for the past ten years, if you put your mind to it you'll be able to think of at least 50 people you could contact who might be useful to you in your hunt for a job. Seems rather manipulative or mercenary? Nonsense! It's called putting yourself first for a change.
Try the following list for starters: people you've worked with in the past, fellow members of any professional or voluntary organizations to which you belong; relations; friends; friends of your partner; acquaintances you play sports with; parents you know from your child's school; professional contacts like your family doctor.
Most people lead double lives. The chairman of your PTA may also be an accountant who just happens to need a new secretary, or a business woman looking for temporary help. At this stage, don't rule anything out!
Next, put your list of contacts in some sort of order. At the top of your list should be those people you feel most comfortable about approaching and those most likely to be useful to you.
Take yourself seriously-if you don't no one else will.
Be friendly but businesslike. Don't feel like you are scrounging for a job.
Initially the idea is to ask for advice. Keep your approach brief and to the point. Don't apologise for using them. Say 'I'm ringing you because I'm returning to the job market and I was wondering if you could offer me any advice or if you might be able to put me in contact with anyone else who could advise?' Networking isn't only about who you know, but about who they know too. If you get a positive response, take your call one stage further -'Do you have any openings or would you be prepared to look at LHave your CV at the ready in case you are asked to go through it over the telephone.
Concentrate on your good points, be enthusiastic and follow up any vague opportunity that's mooted, even if you think it doesn't look quite right for you.
Follow up your first approach with a letter of thanks-this isn't polite but it's a way of restating your case and jogging their memory if they've promised to help.
Remember many employers advertise jobs only as a last resort. The older you are, the more important contacts and networking becomes.
2. Check out job advertisements
Obviously, you'll look in the advertisements.
Think literally and make sure you are casting you job search net as wide as possible.
If you are looking for a job within a certain sector, computing or the media, for example, seek out the job agencies who specialise in the field.
Consider subscribing to professional journals - you don't necessarily have to be a member of the professional association to receive their magazine. If you're looking for a job because you've been made redundant, take up any offer for help from the 'outplacement' firm who may have been employed to help with your redundancy. They may well have their finger on the pulse in terms of what's happening elsewhere and sometimes provide assistance with interviews and CVs. But be wary of paying for these services -3Amazingly, many vacancies are never actually advertised, so its definitely not a waste of time to write a letter to a company asking if they have vacancies. Yes, its tiring and may not yield a result - but on the other hand you could find yourself in the right place at the right time.
Golden rules for speculative letters
Never address your letter 'Dear Sir or Madam'. Find out the name of someone in a relevant key position of authority and write to him or her, if in doubt write a personal letter to the managing director.
Make your letter as individual as you can. Ideally show you know something about the company concerned.
Play the devil's advocate before attending an interview
For example, 'I'm writing to EAI because I've been impressed with the way the company has grown locally in the past few years....' It may seem a bit pretentious, but its better than showing no interest whatsoever!
Don't ramble, make excuses or apologise for writing.
Don't beg for a job - remember you're selling your skills. On the other hand, don't pigeon hole yourself too much . If you specify a particular job title you may cut off other opportunities.
Don't enclose a lengthy CV. Its best to summarise your experience briefly in your letter.
Follow up your letter with a telephone call within the next two weeks. Ask if you can make an appointment to see the person to put your case personally!
How to write a brilliant CV
CVs often end up in one of three piles. Definates, Possibles, and Bin Jobs. Here are five ways to ensure yours ends up in the bin.
1. Handwrite it
2. Make spelling and grammar mistakes and an asterisked apology for the coffee stains.
3. Tell lies
4. Use coloured/Scented/Flower edged paper as opposed to plain white A4.
5. Draw attention to all the things you're trying to mention, like 'I realize I am older than the age specified in your advertisement'.
Don't bother with expensive folders. Staple the pages neatly and pop into a clear A4 folder and do not forget to keep a copy. Also remember, first impressions are vital, never send a CV that has been altered in any way by hand. And bear in mind you may need to tailor-make your CV for each job. If you had a mad two-week fling as a teacher and you're applying for a job as a teacher, then mention it. Otherwise, think twice!
What to include on your CV
Start with Personal Details. Name, address, telephone number, date of birth.
Next should come Education and Professional Qualifications. Prospective employers definitely won't want to know about your primary school education. Give the subjects of your O-Level passes (unless you took them decades ago) but only itemise the grades if they are mainly As and Bs. State the subjects and grades of A-levels plus details of any other further education; secretarial qualifications, university degree and so on.
Then should come your Career History. You should include dates, the company name, your job title and the main areas of responsibility. Supply more detailed information for your most recent job. When describing exactly what you did in each job use positive wording, such as 'I' initiated...'I organised...I was responsible for...'
Make every sentence work for you. Ask yourself what you could add to make your point even more eye catching
For example, instead of just saying, 'I planned and implemented a new system for our customer', perhaps you could add 'which resulted in annual savings for the company of Kshs. 100,000'.
Don't lie, but there's no need to be  scrupulously honest either. For example don't change an old job title from 'typist' to 'supervisor' if the nearest you came to managing staff was feeding the office cat. Your sins will almost certainly find you out.
Don't reveal your previous salary unless specifically asked to do so. It might be far more than they're willing to pay - far less! Don't volunteer the reasons why you left each job unless specifically asked to. Mention the words 'personality clash' anywhere and you might just as well turn up to the interview (if you get that far!) wearing a Here comes Trouble T-Shirt.
Now add a section of other achievements. In this section you might include any awards you've won, any responsible posts held outside work, any courses undertaken, proficiency at languages, sporting achievements. In this section you might include any awards you've won, any responsible posts held outside work, any courses undertaken, proficiency at languages, sporting achievements and so on.
Add a short section about Leisure interests. Make sure your list is balanced and interesting! If you are trying to get a job as a classified ads salesperson, then you will hardly make an impression by putting train spotting and stamp collection on your list. On the other hand, if you state travelling and rock climbing and scuba diving, they might worry you're too high a risk. Remember, everything on your CV will say something about you as a person.
Finally list your Referees. At least one previous employer and one character referee will look good. An aunty won't do.
Keep your head above water at the interview
How to cope with tricky questions.
Why have you changed jobs so often?
What to say. I was lucky enough to be able to gain a lot of experience in a short space of time/I was very keen to take on more responsibility.
What not to say: Yes, I used to be a bit sensitive in those days/I always seemed to have a personality clash with my boss.
You have two young children. Does that mean you will need to take time off when they're sick?
What to say: I already have well-established childcare with reliable back-up and I consider it unprofessional to take time off work unless absolutely necessary.
What not to say: Well, they only get the usual childhood illnesses. I don't have to take off more than a couple of days a month.
Don't you think you are over qualified for this job?
What to say: I think that the experience I have gained could be very valuable to the company, but I still have a lot to learn and I'm anxious to make a new start in a company like this.
What not to say: Well, I suppose I am really, but I don't mind slumming it.
Don't you think you are a bit under qualified for this job?
What to say: I feel the experience I've gained so far has equipped me to do this job well and I know I have the confidence to carry it through. But I'd be prepared to study or take on extra work if you felt I needed to capitalize on that.
What not to say: Well, why does anyone need O-levels to do this job, anyway?
The interview
Prepare ahead
Find out what you can about the company. If you haven't been sent a job description, phone the personnel department and ask if they could send you one. Ask for a copy of the annual report or for any other information that might be useful.
Look at your CV again and make a list of all the possible questions you could be asked and think about the replies you'll give. Play devil's advocate with yourself by asking those questions you hope they won't ask, such as about the gaps in your employment record. You may be asked whether you're married or plan to have children, so have your answers ready.
Ask a friend to role play the interviewer - this will help give you confidence. Even try tape recording these sessions. How does your voice sound? Do you speak irritatingly slowly or do you gabble? Is it obvious you are waffling?
It may sound obvious, but it's vital to work out your travel plans/route/timetable in advance. Build in time for the unexpected - there's no excuse for being late - and don't forget to take the full address and telephone number with you.
The interview itself - how to dazzle them
Make sure you look the part. It's not as simple as wearing a smart business suit. Far better to check out what existing employees are wearing in that particular company and tailor your look accordingly. Don't overdo <-/jewelry or perfume.
Remember your interview starts the moment you step inside the building so it's vital you give the right impression to everyone you meet. Be ready to shake hands with your interviewer and aim for a firm, not limp, grasp!
W2D009K
TRANSITIONAL CRITERIA FOR AWARD AND CLASSIFICATION OF THE VARIOUS DEGREES RECOMMENDED BY THE BOARD OF UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES AT ITS MEETING HELD ON WEDNESDAY. 
(FOR FOURTH YEAR STUDENTS - 1995/96).
BACHELOR OF ARTS (BA).
AWARD OF THE DEGREE.
To be considered for the award of the Bachelor of Arts Degree, a candidate must have passed a minimum of 44 out of the 48 required units provided the candidate has passed eleven (11) Units in each year of study.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE.
The final classification of the degree will be based on the best 44 required units, taken during the four years of study, provided that all the core units are included. If, however, all the 48 units are core units, the best 44 units will be considered. The total marks for these will be averaged to arrive at the following final classification for the Bachelor of Arts degree.
70 % and above	-	First Class Honours.
60 % - 66 %		-	Upper Second Class Honours
50 % - 59 %		-	Lower Second Class Honours.
40 % - 49 %		-	Pass.
No Candidate will be awarded an <-_honours><+_honour's> degree if he/she repeats in any year of study.
BACHELOR OF COMMERCE (B. COM)
AWARD OF THE DEGREE.
To be considered for the award of the Bachelor of Commerce degree, a candidate must have taken and passed a minimum of 44 out of the 48 required units provided that the candidate has passed in eleven (11) units in each year of study.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE.
1. The final classification of the degree will be passed on the best 44 required units taken during the four years of study provided that all core units are included among the 44 units. If, however, all the 48 units are core units, the best 44 units will be averaged to arrive at the following final classification for the Bachelor of Commerce degree.
70 % and above	-	First Class Honours
60 % - 69 %		-	Upper Second Class Honours
50 % - 59 %		- 	Lower Second Class Honours
40 % - 49 %		-	Pass
2. No candidate will be awarded an honours degree if he/she repeats in any year of study.
BACHELOR OF EDUCATION (B.ED).
AWARD OF THE DEGREE.
To be considered for the award of the Bachelor of Education degree, a candidate must pass 45 units out of 49 required units Plus Teaching Practice and must have passed 11 units out of 12 units in First, Second and Fourth years and 12 out of 13 units in third year.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE.
1. The final classification shall be based on 45 units of the 49 required units taken in all four years of study provided that the 45 units include all the core units. If, however, all the 49 units are core units, the best 45 units will be considered. The Total marks for these will be averaged to arrive at the following final classification for the Bachelor of
Education degree:-
70 % and above	-	First Class Honours
60 % - 69 %		-	Upper Second Class Honours
50 % - 59 %		- 	Lower Second Class Honours
40 % - 49 %		-	Pass
2. No candidate will be awarded an honours degree of he/she repeats in any year of study.
BACHELOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES (B.ENV.S)
AWARD OF THE DEGREE.
To be considered for the award of the Bachelor of Environmental Studies a candidate must have passed a minimum of 44 out of the required 48 units plus <-/practicum> provided that the candidate has passed in eleven (11) units in each year of study.
CLASSIFICATION OF THE DEGREE.
1. The final classification of the degree will be based on the average score of the best 44 units provided they include all the core units. If, however, all the 48 required units are core units, the best 44 units will be considered. The total marks for these will be averaged to arrive at the following final classification for the Bachelor of Environmental Studies degree:-
70 % and above	-	First Class Honours
60 % - 69 %		-	Upper Second Class Honours
50 % - 59 %		-	Lower Second Class Honours
40 % - 49 %		- 	Pass
2. No candidate will be awarded an honours degree if he/she repeats in any year of study.
B. ENV S
7.5. To qualify for the postgraduate diploma in education, a candidate must pass to obtain at least 40 %.
a.	in the practical schoolwork including teaching
b.	in the project
c.	in each of the 15 taught units.
7.6. A student who fails to obtain 40 % of the marks in not more than half of the units taken
in that session due to poor performance in written examinations should resit the written
test(s), while one who fails in units due to a poor score in one or more assignments should redo the assignment(s) within the given time which should not exceed four weeks.
7.7. A student who fails to obtain the required passmarks in one or more units after redoing the assignments or resitting examinations for the first time will be given one more chance to clear failure. If the candidate fails to achieve a passmark in any of the units after resitting or redoing it for the second time, he/she will be discontinued.
7.8. During any session a student who fails more than half of the units taken in that session shall be discontinued.
7.9. For the final session students will be given four weeks time to resit the failed assignments and the failed examinations within four weeks time.
GRADING OF THE DIPLOMA
Grading of the Diploma shall be on the basis of the marks obtained in the taught units. Practical teaching (2 units) and the project (2 units).
The total marks on these 19 units shall be averaged to arrive at the following grade equivalents and classification:
70 % and above	Distinction
60 % - 69 %		Credit I
50 % - 59 %		Credit II
40 % - 49 %		Pass
The Diploma Certificate shall indicate the subjects in which the graduate is qualified to teach.
Observations:
While appreciating the current tradition within the Fine Art and the Music departments the Committee made the following observations:
1.	That one of the statutory objectives of the University is to conduct research, document 	it and transmit the same (Kenyatta University Act Cap. 210C Section 4, 1 (a) and (d)).
2.	That there are also set Senate criteria for those wishing to rise within the Academic 	cadre of the University.
3.	That possession of a Ph.D degree is one such criterion for those wishing to be 	appointed or promoted to lectureship and even more so to Associate or full Professor 	positions.
4.	That while one might not require a Ph.D degree to practise in Fine Art, Music or 	indeed any other discipline, if one wishes to be promoted within the University and 	distinguish oneself as a scholar, then a <-/>a Ph.D degree becomes an absolute 	necessity.
5.	That the fact of other Universities not offering Ph.D degree courses in Studio oriented 	courses in Fine Art should not in any way inhibit the initiation of such a programme in 	this University.
Recommendations:
Having made these observations the Committee recommends the following to Senate:
1.	That in view of the long standing tradition that most staff in these departments do not 	obtain doctorates, all existing academic staff with at least three years experience, from 	the rank of Assistant Lecturer upwards, should be allowed promotion to the next grade 	without the requirement of a Ph.D degree PROVIDED they submit detailed written 	reports on their practical productions/performances/compositions as the case may be, 	and meet the other criteria.
2.	This concession should be limited to the next five years from the date of approval by 	Senate.
3.	That for subsequent promotions the requirement of a Ph.D degree be imposed without 	distinction.
4.	That all Academic staff with less than three years experience in their present posts be 	required to have Ph.D degrees before being promoted.
5.	That subsequent promotion should have the requirement of at least one research 	publication since the last promotion.
6.	That both the Fine Art and the Music departments be encouraged to mount Ph.D 	degree 	programmes.
7.	That both departments should also launch departmental journals in which original 	works can be published.
LS 404 PUBLISHING AND BOOK TRADE.   1 UNIT
Historical background. Paper production. The market for books. Author and publisher. The Publisher's list. Producing a book. Academic and specialist publishing. Reference book publishing. The paperback industry. The economics of publishing. Publication, promotion and distribution. The net-book agreement. Book development councils. Economic implications of book development and foreign published books. Retail bookselling. The bookseller and his customers. Book clubs and direct selling. Library suppliers andSDuring the second year, students will take 3 core units, a project and 4 electives.
ELECTIVES
Students will select four units from the following electives except that students may select only one unit from Lib 537, Lib 538 and Lib 539.
Lib 412	SOURCES OF BIBLIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION I (1 UNIT)
Communication of knowledge. Growth and scatter of literature: Types of literature - primary, secondary and tertiary. Guides to literature. Indexes, abstracts, bibliographies, reviews. Types of reference sources: <-/encyclopedia>, dictionaries, almanacs and yearbooks, gazetteers, atlases, handbooks, guides to reference sources.
Lib 413	INFORMATION ORGANIZATION II (1 UNIT)
Dewey decimal classification scheme. Library of Congress. UDC. Shortcomings of systematic order. Construction of special classification schemes. Subject headings: Sears. Library of Congress lists. Display of bibliographic record. Application of DDC, LC and UDC schemes. Application of AACR II, LC and Sears subject headings. Cataloguing policies and processes. Special cataloguing problems: African names. Mechanisation in cataloguing. Application of filing rules. Post-co-ordinate indexing: thesaurus construcLThe role of research in librarianship and information science. Selecting a problem and constructing a hypothesis. Methods of research. Tools of research. Writing a research proposal. Collection of data. Descriptive and inferential data analysis. Interpretation of data. Writing the research report.
Lib 415	AUTOMATION IN LIBRARIES I (1 UNIT)
Historical developments. Principles of computer application to information management. Batch and on-line processing. Computer hardware. Computer software. Types of programming languages. Types of computer systems. Telecommunications.
Lib 515	NON-BOOK MEDIA (1 UNIT)
The concept of multi-media libraries. Types of materials. Bibliographic control. Selection, evaluation and acquisition. Organization, storage and handling. Equipment: selection, care and maintenance. Conservation: environmental factors and control. In-house production. Reprographics. Copyright. Management problems. Future developments.
Lib 516	PROJECT (3 UNITS)
In consultation with the department/supervisor Candidates will identify a research topic, present a proposal and carry out research. The results to be presented as a project. The project will be equivalent to three units.
ELECTIVES
Lib 517	SCHOOL LIBRARIANSHIP (1 UNIT)
The Library in education. Purpose of the school Library. School Libraries in Kenya. School Library buildings. Staffing and training. Budgeting. Selection, acquisition and organisation of resources. Role of non-book media in education. Storage and maintenance. User services. Support services. Use of technology.
Lib 518	ACADEMIC LIBRARIANSHIP (1 UNIT)
Structure of higher education. The role of the Library in an academic setting. Functions. History. The Kenyan scene and development: development of academic Libraries in Kenya. Standards. Management of academic Libraries. The Librarian. Organisational structure. Personnel management. Finance and budgeting. Collection management. Copyright. Planning and design of buildings. User studies. User services. Technological developments. Future trends.
Lib 519	OUTREACH LIBRARIANSHIP (1 UNIT)
Historical developments. Categories of users and user needs. Access to Library. Library equipment and facilities. Use of technology in material production. Trends in developed and developing countries. Resources selection, acquisition and organisation. Planning, staffing and financing information services. Copyright. Professional associations and organisations.
Lib 525	MEDICAL LIBRARIANSHIP (1 UNITS)
Development and current trends in medicine and health care. Medical associations and societies. The medical profession, organisation and structure with particular reference to Kenya. The medical Library. Role and purpose. Types. Organizations, structure and function. Librarian role. Planning, equipping and stocking. Management. Finance and budgeting. Information organization and retrieval. User studies. <-/Catergories of illness>. User services. Sources of medical literature. Literature searching: <-/mauaWPROPOSAL FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF CURRICULUM STUDIES' OBJECTIVES REGULATIONS FOR THE BACHELOR'S AND MASTER'S DEGREES IN EDUCATION AND PGDACD IN THE DEPARTMENT OF CURRICULUM STUDIES
COURSE OBJECTIVES
The courses in Curriculum Studies aim at equipping the students with knowledge, attitudes and skills in Curriculum Development. Specifically, at the end of the course the students should be able to:
2. Apply their understanding of the process of curriculum planning and development in Kenya to their daily tasks as educators.
3. Explain the role of various agencies and institutions involved at different levels in the process of curriculum development.
4. Describe the elements and components of secondary and primary school curriculum in the Kenyan context.
5. Apply the basic knowledge and skills gained to plan, implement and evaluate secondary school curriculum, especially in their individual subject areas.
CS. 504	CURRICULUM DESIGN
The general aim of the curriculum is to guide students examine the strategies for curriculum designing. The students will identify the four major elements of curriculum and theories on how to relate the elements. The advantages and disadvantages of the four major designs (subject based, Broad Fields, Core and experience based designs) will be discussed as examples. An attempt will be made to characterize curriculum in Kenya.
CS. 505	CURRICULUM IMPLEMENTATION AND EVALUATION
The general aim of the course is to guide students to identify the people and organisation involved in curriculum implementation and evaluation. Also to identify the interpersonal skills required to coordinate the various agents involved in curriculum implementation and evaluation. The students will also identify some of the problems which may arise during curriculum implementation and evaluation.
CS. 506	CURRICULUM CHANGE AND INNOVATIONS
The aim of the course is to guide the students to examine the rationale for on going process of improvement in the curriculum. The students will be helped to examine the various factors which make innovation in education and curriculum necessary. The students will be enabled to appreciate the need and to develop the interpersonal skills necessary to co-ordinate the various segments in society involved in curriculum innovation. Students may be assigned practical activities to evaluate an educational prograCThe course aims at equipping the students with the necessary knowledge attitudes and skills in Development of Teaching - Learning Languages in Kenya. The course presents curriculum changes, issues, policies and innovation in the teaching of language in Kenya.
CS. 518	CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT IN SOCIAL STUDIES
The course aims at equipping the students with the necessary knowledge, attitudes and skills in Curriculum Development in Social Studies. The course presents' approaches to Social Studies in Kenya and the teaching - learning resources.
CS. 519	CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT IN CREATIVE ARTS SUBJECTS
The course aims at equipping the students with the necessary knowledge, attitudes and skills in Curriculum Development in Creative Arts. The course presents the status, functions of and approaches to Creative Arts in Kenya.
CS. 520	PROJECT/FIELDWORK/RESEARCH
The course is designed to guide the students to select a project or research topic of his/her choice and carry out investigation under the guidance of an experienced person. This should help the individual students relate theory to practice as well as gain skills in working with other people and learn how new knowledge is gained through research.
PROPOSAL FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
OBJECTIVES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE BACHELOR'S AND MASTER'S DEGREES IN EDUCATION IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT
COURSE OBJECTIVES
The courses in the Department of Educational Management aim at equipping the students with knowledge and skills in the areas of Educational Administration, Educational Planning and Economics of Education specifically, that courses are geared to:
1. Provide highly qualified manpower in the areas of educational planning and economics of education at both undergraduate and graduate levels.
2. Provide opportunities for promoting research projects and publications in the areas of educational administration, planning and economics of education
3. Equip the learners with managerial/administrative skills applicable to educational systems and institutions.
4. Equip the learner with general and specific knowledge on planning and economics of education
I	ENTRY REQUIREMENTS
1.1	The common regulations for all undergraduates <-/anad> masters degrees programmes 	in the university shall apply.
1.2	The common regulations for all undergraduates and masters degrees programmes in 	the Faculty of Education shall apply.
1.3	The following shall be eligible for registration for M.Ed. in the Department:
	(a)	A holder of Bachelor of Education degree with at least Upper Second Class of 	Kenyatta University or any other
<O/>
EAP/M/502	THEORIES OF EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION (1 UNIT)
Definition, nature, types, uses and application of administrative theories. Communication and decision making process. Line and staff organization. Power and authority. Organizational <-/strucutre> of the Ministry of Education. Rationalism, humanism and behaviourism. Leadership, group dynamics, bureaucracy.
EAP/M/503	POLICY IN EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION (1 UNIT)
The historical background in educational policies governing the management of Kenyan educational Institutions. Study of Pre-Independence and Post-Independence  and Post McKay Policies Commission Reports. The Education Act, 1968, and amendments, the Teachers Service Commission Act 1967, the Kenya Institute of Education Act and amendments. The Development Plans. The structure of the Ministry of Education. The role of the Parent Teacher Association, Board of Governors, and T.S.C. in the management of schoolsEThe role of the headteacher and other officials of the Ministry in secondary school administration. Emphasis on secondary school, school plant, curriculum and instruction, office management, discipline, career guidance services, financial management and community relations. Research, problems and issues in secondary school management.
EAP/M/509	ADMINISTRATION OF TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS (1 UNIT)
The administrative structure of the teacher training colleges. Supervision of teaching practice. Staff Development and financial management. Research and evaluation of teaching methods, equipment and instructional programmes. Problems and issues in teacher education  management.
EAP/M/510	UNIVERSITY EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (1 UNIT)
Theories and principles of <-/managment> as relates to university and other higher education institutions. The bureaucratic structure of the Ministry of Education in relation to universities. Financing university education, research issues and problems in university education, university autonomy and academic freedom.
EAP/M/519	EFFICIENCY AND EQUITY IN EDUCATION (1 UNIT)
Internal efficiency of education. External Efficiency of Education. Efficient Investment in education: International patterns; efficiency of selections processes in primary secondary and tertiary education. Equity considerations financing students loans for higher education. Intersectional Links <-/betweeen> education and other aspects of the economy. Education and incomes, health agriculture and fertility.
JUSTIFICATION FOR DEPARTMENTAL STATUS
Our justification for change of status from Library Education Unit to Department of Library and Information Studies is as follows:
The Library Education Unit which has been in existence in this University for a period of over 12 years, having been established in 1984/85 academic year, has now come of age and deserves to be up-graded to a full-fledged department. All these years it has been successfully nurtured by the University Library and time has now come for it to stand on its own as an independent department within the Faculty of Education.
On inception in 1984, the following two programmes were offered on the request to the Ministry of Education
- M.Ed (T.D.C.)
- M.Ed (P.T.E.)
Currently, the Unit is offering the following programmes:
- M.Ed. (Library Studies)
- B.Ed. (Library Studies)
These two programmes have a total of 117 students, 7 of whom are postgraduates while 110 are undergraduates.
There are 4 postgraduate students in year 2, and 3 in year 1, 20 undergraduates in year 4, 24 in year 3, 44 in year 2, and 22 in year 1.
It is <-/worthnoting> that the demand for these programmes is rising every year. Since 
1990, 29 graduates have gone through the M.Ed (Library Studies) programme and all of them 
are holding responsible positions in various information organizations throughout the country.
The first lot of 22 B.Ed (Library Studies) students graduated in 1995 and are now working in various organizations including teacher training colleges as library science tutors and managers of learning resource centres, specialized professional training institutions, and even in non-governmental organizations.
We may also add that the two programmes offered by the Unit are not offered anywhere else in the country and their graduates are certainly making a positive impact on the library and information scene in the country.
RATIONALE
School Librarianship has been taught in Kenyatta University since 1976/77 when it was offered as an elective course to the Diploma students. More recently a Librarianship course was introduced into the M.Ed. (TDC) and M.Ed. (PTE) programmes.
In this programme the introduction of Librarianship as a subject within the B.Ed. is meant to serve the following purposes.
1. To produce a teacher/librarian who can not only teach an academic subject but also organize school libraries. At present a lot of schools do not have anybody from among the staff who can organise their libraries professionally. Because of this, schools buy books every year which are inadequate in number and gets lost due to lack of proper organization.
2. To produce a person with the prerequisite skills who can also be absorbed into the current Teachers Service Commission scales.
3. To produce a person who can work in the primary teachers training colleges Learning Resource Centres which are currently suffering due to lack of qualified manpower. In addition, resource based learning which is now increasingly accepted as an effective way of learning involves the use of many <O/>
(b) To acquaint the student with modern methods of library organisation and administration to enable him effectively organise, develop and manage a library.
(c) To provide the student with the knowledge and skills to enable him to assist teachers and pupils utilize effectively the resources available in the library.
(d) To provide the student with an opportunity to expand and develop individual interests in an area of specialization within or related to library science.
PRACTICAL WORK
Candidates will be expected to work in school libraries as part of their practical experience during teaching practice and their performance will be assessed accordingly.
SCHEDULE OF COURSES
FIRST YEAR COURSES
LS 101 LIBRARY AND SOCIETY
Evolution of human society. Development of <-/communciation>. Social foundations of libraries and librarianship. The book industry. Copyright. Censorship. Statutory legislation. The role of libraries in society. Professional ethics. Current issues in Librarianship. Types of libraries: Characteristics and users. Library standards. Libraries and other information services. The new information order. Professional organizations: national, regional, international.
LS 102 CATALOGUING I.
Purposes and functions of a catalogue. Cataloguing codes and principles. Major cataloguing codes with emphasis on the AACR. Kinds of library catalogue with emphasis on dictionary and classified catalogues. Physical forms of catalogue.
LS 103 CLASSIFICATION I
Theories of classification. Terminologies used in general classification. Principles of division. Library classification. Special features of bibliographic classification: general class, form classes, standard subdivisions, notation, index. Major classification schemes with emphasis on the Dewey Decimal, Library of Congress and Universal Decimal Schemes.
LS 204 CLASSIFICATION II: 1 UNIT
Accepted departures from general classification: biographies and fiction. Broken and parallel arrangements, Guiding the classified arrangement of stock in the Library. Objectives to systematic order. Special classification schemes. Subject indexing. Construction of a classification scheme. Thesaurus construction. Current trends in classification practices. Evaluation of classification practices.
LS 304 REFERENCE AND INFORMATION SERVICES
Philosophy of reference and information services. The nature and characteristics of reference and information services. The reference librarian. The reference process. Reference service guidelines The interview and search process. Bibliographic services: Manual and computerized. Economics of a computer search. Databases and databanks. Networks and inter-library loans. The user community: characteristics, needs study methods. User education. Methods of evaluation reference and information services. 

