W2C001T
Fundikira quits NCCR
SEVENTY- year-old Chief Abdallah Said Fundikira, 70, has announced the formation of his political party, the Union for Multi Party Democracy, and resigned from the National Committee for Constitutional Reform.
"I am announcing to you members of the Press that I am not interested in the NCCR and I hereby declare that I have resigned," Fundikira said.
He told the attentive members of the Press that he will launch his party before March next year after registering it officially.
"And if the government will not register my party, I am going to drag it to a court of law and fight it out until it gets registered," he said.
Tanzania is a constitutionally one party state.
He was talking to over 30 members of the press representing various media both local and international at his home in Magomeni in the city which was also attended by the new Director of the United States Information Service, Gregory Lynch.
The Press conference which was *schedulled> to be held at the New Africa Hotel was *hastly> moved to Magomeni after the hotel management cancelled the chief's booking at the eleventh hour.
Fundikira booked a room at the hotel on 15 October and paid 15,000/- in advance for the room, according to a bill number 0390. He was refunded the money.
He said that the time has come for Tanzania to have an opposition party for bringing true democracy in the country. "Tanzania has no true democracy now under the one party system," he said.
Quoting various sections of the Constitution, Fundikira said that subject to the laws of the land every person was entitled to freedom of assembly and to belong to any association of his choice.
"I am doubtful whether I have committed an offence by announcing my opposition party... The word fear is not in my vocabulary since the present Constitution of Tanzania has contradicted itself in various places," the Chief said.
He denied that he was part and parcel of creating the detention laws of Tanzania while he was Justice Minister in the 1960's. "In fact the laws were created by the Ministry of Home Affairs," he clarified.
He said that his Union for Multi-party Democracy movement has many people in the country who were waiting to join it after its registration next year.
"This is the beginning of a new era for political democracy in Tanzania," he said.
Going over the political history of Tanzania, Fundikira said that when the country had opposition parties in the 60's many people were detained for standing up against TANU (The Tanganyika African National Union).
He blamed the <ea_>Chama Cha MapinduziEAF for denying the majority to have a say in the politics of Tanzania. "Only those who are members of the single party are allowed to participate in its politics.
Adding: "The state has no right to impose its ideology in the whole country... They are putting the horse before the cart by taking away all rights of the citizens of this country... Therefore there is no real freedom in the country under the one party state."
Relaxing in his black striped suit, Fundikira said that Tanzania has no free local government in the past 30 years and the Arusha Declaration has impoverished the nation.
"If we had other political parties from the start many *misconcieved> ideologies would not have taken place in Tanzania, "Fundikira said.
In his 16-page statement of the policy of the Union for Multi-Party Democracy given to Journalists, Fundikira said that the launching of UMD was a historical and significant departure from what has been a tradition of imposed undemocratic political and governmental institutions in the lives of the people of Tanzania.
He said that UMD strongly supports the proposed National constitutional conference which "must be convened without delay to hammer out a new democratic constitution."
Fundikira said "agents of the ruling party are going around the country intimidating the rural population by stories to the effect that the country's peace and stability was being threatened by proponents of the multiparty system."
Tanzania leading in Aids victims?
ONE THIRD of Africa's reported Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) victims are Tanzanians, according to the African Medical and Research Foundation and Health Ministry figures.
Tanzania's shocking figure represents 7.5 per cent of the 366,455 global reported aids cases.
AMREF estimates put-global-HIV infected cases at 8 million as against a total of 800,000 patients of the killer disease.
Of these African's share is estimated at 5 mil. infected cases as against 500,000 people who are suffering from lack of body immunity. Africa's reported AIDS cases according to AMREF sources stand at 92,922 today.
Tanzania, according to the recent National AIDS Control Programme report, has an estimated 700,000 of HIV cases of which an estimated 100,000 are already suffering from lack of body immunity.
Official reports however put the number of AIDS cases a bit lower at 22,396 only while the relative number should be 30,000.
While the figures bemoan death right at the corner, people are reportedly finding it difficult to change their anomalous social behaviours said to be highly contributory to the scourge.
Investigation by Business Times with AMREF along the Tazam highway has shown that many barmaids and truck drivers still attend to the sexual service in the parallel market, despite AMREF's guidelines.
Barmaids at Mlandizi are reportedly selling their bodies at 1,000/- per service, but can charge only 200/- if one needed the service without condoms.
Business Times discovered that the underlying problem here is one of human *recessity> but moulded to the prevailing social circumstances - food.
One of the prostitutes told this paper that she appreciated services rendered by AMREF. However, she pointed out, it would be difficult to go by AMREF's guidance, if it meant going without food.
Based on the estimated 700,000 infected persons in the country, and the fact that no AIDS cure is expected in the near future, AMREF health officer Christopher Mwaijonga says about 450,000 persons will have developed AIDS by the end of the decade.
The estimated increased widespread of the scourge is based on cohort studies in the US which established that 50 per cent of HIV infected persons become victims of AIDS 10 years after infection.
This number, however, is true if HIV transmission is halted completely as from today, cohort studies suggest.
But, scientific investigations suggest that if HIV infections continue to occur at a rate of 1 per cent per year up to 1995, the cumulative number of AIDS cases will be 750,000 in the next nine years.
If the on-going Truck Drivers Project by the AMREF-Tanzania which works for the promotion of the use of condoms by barmaids and truck drivers so as to limit the spread of HIV infections along transport routes in the country is going to bear fruits at least 300,000 of the expected 750,000 AIDS cases will be salvaged, according to the investigation.
The truth of this is based on epidemiological evidence by the AMREF which suggests a pattern of sexual transmission of HIV where a few individuals with a big number of sexual partners such as truck drivers and barmaids (high frequency transmitters) run a high risk of acquiring and transmitting the virus which finally leads to AIDS.
Is then this truck drivers project by the AMREF-Tanzania likely to achieve its intended goal?
One may look on this project in terms of cost, utility and the extent of the scourge.
The project is conducted by the AMREF with technical and financial support from the Family Health International (FHI) and the US-Agency for International Development (USAID).
Objectives of the project are to educate truckers, barmaids and people who engage in commercial sex on the risk of HIV infection. Condoms and reading materials are distributed while seminars to promote the  uses><+_use> of condoms and reduction of sexual partners are conducted.
This project is costly. According to the AMREF estimations it needs at least 75,000 USD per year so as to get the programme implemented as planned.
But two FHI coordinators, Nancy Lamson and Michel Welsh, who met a Business Times reporter at Sarova Inn Bar and Guest House at Mlandizi said the project would be funded provided that it proved to be effective.
Indeed FHI which is based in North Carolina in the United States has committed itself to strengthen the project with USD 150,000 covering the period of three years 1991-93
USAID also has committed more than USD 91 million through its own bilateral assistance  programmes for HIV and AIDS prevention and control.
In terms of funding therefore the project seems to be at home.
The biggest problem facing the project is how to get the intended people, commercial sexual workers and truck drivers to genuinely receive and abide to the message from the AMREF workers currently touring some of the major truck spots in the country.
AMREF message to truck drivers and prostitutes is simple:
Reduce the number of sexual partners.
Use condoms with all irregular partners every time you have sex.
Get sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) treated promptly before you can have sex.
Do not have sex with partners who have open sores.
But above all, change your social behaviours.
Plot to kidnap Mrema out
HOME AFFAIRS Minister Augustine Mrema has charged that a city based reverend-cum-politician is plotting to kidnap him using foreign mercenaries.
Mrema says he has evidence that Reverend Christopher Mtikila of the Full Salvation Army had revealed his plot at a secret meeting.
"Even his friends say if is true that the reverend proposed such a plot at a meeting," he stressed. But he could not give details of how the bizarre exercise would be executed.
When confronted with the dramatic revelation this week, the fiery priest who is head of the church's "liberty desk" denied vehemently any knowledge of such a meeting or kidnap plot, and challenged the minister to provide proof.
"If he has the evidence why hasn't he taken me to court?", he queried.
Asked if it would be proper for a Home Affairs Minister to order a prosecution, Mtikila stressed: "Definitely. Any person who threatens another human being of taking his life or to do anything similar to that, by the law that I know, he has to be separated from the person who is threatened."
On his part, Mtikila told Business Times that he plans to take Mrema to court to answer four major charges of compounding and abetting crime, conspiring with looters, and of treason by making the people lose confidence in their government.
The row between the Minister and the reverend began to surface after the Dar es Salaam airport gold forex smuggling scandal in June.
Mtikila who preaches his political harangues shrouded in Biblical prophesies, was angered when Mrema failed to name the "big shots" behind the syndicate as he had promised.
In an exclusive interview with Business Times before he left for Europe two weeks ago, Mrema was asked what he made of the rumour which is rife in Dar es Salaam that there had been assassination attempts on his life.
"I have not experienced those assassination attempts. But I have heard words like those of Mapalala...oh not Mapalala! RRREh, Mtikila who said he is ready to employ mercenaries to kidnap me," he said.
He pointed out that the reason for Mtikila's alleged move was based on the reasoning that he wanted the minister to reveal the names of the "EAFvigogo" (heavy weights) in the 176 million/- forex and gold scandal.
Mrema said he was only taking caution to ensure that he was safe following the reverend's alleged bitter words revealed in an investigation by a team the Minister had commissioned.
The interview was conducted in Mrema's official car while he was driving around on duty, and he remarked: "If we were in my office, I would have shown you the report which is based on the investigation I ordered to be conducted on the secret meeting".
Asked if the meeting was staged by the Liberty Desk, Mrema said this could not be ruled out.
"He (Mtikila) will use all the tactics he knows of, but to which direction and destination he wants to go, this is still under investigation."
Reverend Mtikila, however, denied all the accusations in an interview this week.
"I cannot meet anyone to discuss the evils of Mr. Mrema," he retorted. "I can only take him to court if he misbehaves.
"I do not need mercenaries to correct Mr. Mrema's wrongdoings like I cannot correct a wrong by a more serious wrong. It is easy for me to deal with Mr. Mrema for anything which he does wrong *contracy> to the laws", Mtikila said.
But when notified that the minister had documents over the meeting he allegedly organised to plot the kidnap, he confidently retorted: "If he had the documents already why didn't he take me to court? The documents are necessary evidence for his protection".
He emphasized that for the Minister's own safety, he should take him (Mtikila) to court, but cautiously threatened that this would be the "most serious criminal event" to take place in the country. 
W2C002T
Sheraton Hotel saga takes new twist
Top Govt official says project 'not feasible' 
Alleges project-pushers expect kick-backs 
Blames removal from Treasury on Kighoma Malima 
As preparations to build the Sheraton Hotel in Dar es Salaam gain momentum, a high-ranking government official, has revealed that the project is not feasible and its financing formula would be detrimental to the national interest.
The official, Professor Jonas Kipokola, who is the Deputy Principal Secretary and Deputy Secretary to the Planning Commission, has told the President's Chief Secretary, Ambassador Paul Rupia that there was a conspiracy to have the Tanzanian government pay USD 630 million instead of USD1.7 million in form of a debt equity swap by the Russian Government.
In his letter of May 3, 1993 to Ambassador Rupia, Professor Kipokola, until recently the Deputy Principal Secretary to the Treasury complained that he was unfairly transferred to the Planning Commission allegedly because of the intrigues by the local promoter of the Sheraton Hotel project, Mr. E. Mantheakis and the Finance Minister, Professor Kighoma Malima.
Professor Kipokola had been at the Treasury leading a group of experts since 1983 whose role was instrumental in spearheading the national economic recovery programmes.
He claimed in a five-page letter, whose copy is in the custody of the Family Mirror that he was seen to be a stumbling block towards the development of the Sheraton Hotel Project because he had recommended to authorities that the project needed careful scrutiny, particularly the formula to be used to convert the debt that Tanzania owed the Russian Government.
Prof. Kipokola said the Tanzanian Ambassador to Moscow had advised the government to be cautious because the new republics such as Ukraine were against Russia's claim to acquire all debt payments owed to the former Soviet Union.
He said Russia wanted the debts to be paid at the "historical exchange rate" of USD 1 to 0.54 roubles when the Russian exchange rate was already USD 1 to 200.
Tanzania owed the former Soviet Union 341 million roubles an equivalent of USD 1.7 million, using the present exchange rate of USD 1 to 200 roubles.
"There is *paractically> no reason why Tanzania should pay USD 630 million, taking into account that the Soviet Union funded projects never materialised," he said, alleging that bribes in form of kick-backs and commissions had been set aside for Tanzanian officials.
He blamed unnamed officials for cheating the President, leading to his "unceremonious" transfer from the Treasury to the Planning Commission, ignoring the commitment he had demonstrated over the years in the Economic Recovery Programme.
Prof. Kipokola claimed that much as he had successfully left no stone unturned in ensuring the revival of the Tanzanian economy and won the donors' confidence, the "new Minister for Finance" at all times worked against the team of experts.
"Because I knew his `style', I did not expect to continue working at the Treasury after he was appointed Finance Minister, although I did not suspect that the politics of intrigues would work to this extent", he writes, clearly upset by the transfer which he claims was masterminded by Professor Malima and the Managing Director of Mansons Ltd., Mr. Mantheakis.
On October 29,1992, Mr. Mantheakis wrote to the Director of Coopers and Lybrands Associates, Mr. Ibrahim Seushi, complaining that the former's company had allegedly stated in two feasibility studies on the rehabilitation of the Kilimanjaro Hotel, and the Motel Agip that the proposed Sheraton Hotel project "is the least likely to go ahead".
Mr. Mantheakis told Mr. Seushi in a letter whose copy is also with the Family Mirror that he believed "the success of our project is being undermined by Mr. Jonas Kipokola." He insisted that Mr. Seushi's company explains in detail the reason behind its statement and "what gave it the confidence to make it".
The Sheraton Hotel promoter claimed in the letter that Professor Kipokola had a "clear conflict of interest because he is Chairman of the Governing Board of the Kilimanjaro Hotel Ltd.," saying he was using the weight of Coopers and Lybrand Associates to inflict irreparable damages to a rival project.
In what seems to support Professor Kipokola's assertion that his removal from the Treasury was made unilaterally basing on untenable assumptions, Mr. Mantheakis told the Coopers and Lybrand Associates Director that the Sheraton Hotel project would succeed at any cost because it had the full support of the President.
"I assure you that this project has the full support of the Tanzanian Government and particularly the President of the United Republic, who has gone out of his way to assist us with the acquisition of the land and may yet again intervene to ensure the success of this much desired and awaited project", Mr. Mantheakis revealed.
But Professor Kipokola has told Ambassador Rupia that it was mere fabrication that he had stalled the Sheraton Hotel project, saying he had exercised caution in its implementation to ensure that every step made was in national interest.
He claimed that his removal was also politically inspired because he had been seen by his enemies to belong to one of the opposition parties, CHADEMA. He said he was alleged to have been working to weaken the ruling party and ensure the removal of its leaders from power.
Official corruption kills Morogoro project 
Sweden withdraws financial support 
Sweden has rescinded its earlier decision to finance construction of the proposed Morogoro Vocational Training Centre because of an apparent corrupt tendencies among Tanzanian officials involved in facilitating the project.
The decision was communicated to the Acting Director of the National Vocational Training Division, Mr. A. Athmani, on July 28, 1993 by the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) official, Anders Berlin.
Sweden had, through a competitive bid, contracted Mr. G. Asplund as a Consultancy Architect to make professional evaluation of all the tenders in collaboration with SIDA.
The architect prepared drawings and evaluated tender documents all of which were approved by relevant bodies. Tenders were shortlisted to eight, according to sources.
But the Family Mirror has learnt that the consultant, in close consultation with SIDA, recommended MS. Safari Enterprises to undertake the work and communicated this to the client, the National Vocational Training Division (NVTD) for appropriate action.
The tenderers included K.S. Virdee; Lekashingo Building Company; Tanzania Building Works; and Safari Enterprises. Others are, Patels Construction Company; D.B. Shapriya; Herkins Building Company; and Ram Singh and Sons Company.
It is understood that NVTD made its own recommendations and sent these together with those of SIDA's G. Asplund to the Central Tender Board for final action.
But documents in the custody of the Family Mirror show that the Central Tender Board decided to award the tender to the second lowest bidder, Messrs Ram Singh and Sons Ltd, without sufficient reasons, a  decisions><+_decision> which surprised SIDA.
"Please arrange to enter into a suitable written contract with the successful contractor and ensure that the works contract is executed within the time and at the cost approved", the Central Tender Board Secretary, Mr. A.J. Malyi, said in a letter to the NVTD director on July 15, 1993 with reference no. CTB/TEN/CEC/61/2.
According to sources within the NVTD, the board's letter angered SIDA to the effect that the latter responded by informing the NVTD that M/S Safari Enterprises Ltd had to be contracted for the project, contrary to which, an alternative financier had to be found.
But documentary evidence available to the Family Mirror  suggest><+_suggests> that SIDA may have reacted judiciously by withdrawing support, in view of what had been happening behind the scenes in a bid by tenderers and their accomplices in government to win the project.
For example, the Morogoro Regional Commissioner, Mr. Yusufu Makamba, had officially lobbied to the Minister for Labour, Youth and Community Development, Mr. Hassan Diria, so that he could exert pressure and use influence to have one tenderer, M/S K.S. Virdee secure the contract.
In a letter to the Minister on June 3, 1993 which had reference No. C.40/42/Vol. VI 42, the Morogoro Regional Commissioner told the minister that the applicant was his friend and therefore asked that he be given favour in the deal.
"Hon. Minister, may I inform you that M/S K.S. Virdee is reliable, honest, and competent to finish the work on schedule. I am sure he will complete it if given the offer", Mr. Makamba told the Minister who initialled the letter on July 14, 1993.
"I am writing to you as my relative and friend so that you can consider him for the work. The applicant came to see me to ask for help so that I introduce him to you with hope that you will help him," the Regional Commissioner humbly pleaded. 
BALUKTA calls for shedding of blood as 500 youths register for 'Jihad' 
Kighoma Malima wanted for president * Premier John Malecela rejected 
At least 500 youths are believed to have registered in Dar es Salaam to serve in the Islamic Army which is reportedly being formed to fight in the 'Jihad' (Holy War) declared by the fundamentalist Muslim faction (BALUKTA) against alleged marginalisation of Muslims by Christians, according to investigations by the Family Mirror.
Investigations have also revealed that two containers of arms caches were recently intercepted by customs officials. It was not immediately clear from which countries the arms were being imported but reliable sources told the Family Mirror that the Islamic Republic of Iran was the chief supplier of arms and money to fight in the Jihad.
The government has received information in this respect and was working on it, the Deputy Prime Minister, Augustine Mrema, who is also responsible for the Home Affairs ministry confirmed to the Family Mirror in an exclusive interview at his Mikocheni home, in Dar es Salaam recently.
"We have information that youths are being trained and that there have been overtures to smuggle arms into the country for the purpose," Mr. Mrema said, adding that the government had sent people to Ikwiriri, Rufiji District, where the youths are allegedly being trained. The Iranian government is running a huge paddy project in the area.
Asked why the government had taken no prompt action before the situation reached fever heat, Mr. Mrema said the government had to be careful so that it could do the "timing", adding: "If the government had taken action three months ago 'EAFWananchi' would not have understood us."
Mr. Mrema's remarks were occasioned by the arrest and subsequent prosecution of 38 fundamentalist Muslims alleged to have attacked pork butcheries in the city, causing much damage to property and endangering lives.
The plot to attack the butcheries was hatched at the KwaMtoro Mosque at Kariakoo, in the City, according to sources which told the Family Mirror that Sheik Abubakar Mwaipopo, a Christian-turned Moslem had allegedly incited the congregation on Good Friday to defy government orders prohibiting Muslims to attack the butcheries.
Muslim sources told the Family Mirror that the Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Mustapha Nyang'anyi and the Regional CCM Chairman, Ramadhan Nyamka, had warned the fundamentalists against the attack on the butcheries because it was illegal. But, according to the sources, the fundamentalists acted on the contrary because they did not take Mr. Nyamka and Mr. Nyang'anyi to be true Moslems.
"They regard the two men as 'Kaffirs' and sell-outs to CCM," one of the sources said, adding that Brigadier Moses Nnauye, CCM's Mainland Deputy Secretary General is also seen as such. Reports reaching the Family Mirror say that although the BALUKTA leadership has been having direct contacts with Tehran, it had allegedly established strong links with the unregistered Islamic Party of Kenya (IPK) and was reportedly working to register BALUKTA as a political party with the express aim of overthrowing the CCM government by violent means.
"They claim that Father of the Nation EAFMwalimu Julius Nyerere is a cause for the alleged marginalisation," said Deputy Prime Minister, Augustine Mrema, describing them as political thugs bent on imposing a neo-colonial fundamentalist government.
It is believed that the fundamentalists were planning to poison beer at the Tanzania Breweries (TBL), burn beer groceries, bars and guesthouses.

W2C003T
Plot to oust Government revealed
A PLOT to overthrow the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania has been unveiled and an operation to arrest the suspects is in full swing.
Breaking the news to reporters in his office in Dar es Salaam, the Minister for Home Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister Augustine Mrema said that the *consipirators> were operating under the cover of a religious organisation.
He said a number of people will be arrested including prominent leaders of the council for reciting the Holy Quran (BALUKTA) led by Sheikh Yahya Hussein the self-proclaimed leader of fundamentalists.
Sheik Yahya. an astrologer, who spent many years in Kenya and lived for a long time in Arusha, openly declared that he is the leader of the people arrested in connection with the demolition of pork shops in Magomeni and Manzese areas last week.
Asked whether the Sheikh was arrested by evening yesterday, Mrema said he was not in a position to answer that question but when our reporter pressed him he said he will definitely not be free tomorrow (today) indicating that an arrest order had either been issued or the Sheikh was already languishing in one of the underground cells at the Central Police Station.
Mr. Mrema said the plot was uncovered after listening to recorded audio cassettes and studying several documents which were confiscated from different people who are related to the attack on the pork shops over the weekend.
It is claimed that the tapes give a list of unwanted people who are in power at present and who have to be physically eliminated during the power take over.
Mrema said the *take over> had been planned at the end of President Mwinyi's term of office which due in 1995.
"This is a very dangerous  groups><+_group>. It has a political agenda and the Mosques are plotting areas," Mrema said.
The Deputy Prime Minister added that the government has reports from different sources concerning the activities of this group of plotters and it going to arrest all of them indiscriminately.
"We don't care how big one is or his position. We are looking for criminals," Mrema stressed in an attempt to show how serious the operation will be.
The minister has cautioned Tanzanians not to be fooled so as to take the conflict to be between Christians and Muslims.
During the operation the police have got hold of two canisters suspected to be bombs but they are yet to be declared so by competent authorities in the Ministry of Defence.
Mrema said that the Government has full support from the public concerning the movements of the suspects and every bit of it is as important as the other.
"It is our war. So we have to fight it jointly so as to ensure victory is on our side," the minister said. 
Mapalala counsels opposition
Let's seize opportunity 
OPPOSITION parties in Tanzania should seize the opportunity created by the electoral commission to pressurize the ruling <ea_>Chama Cha MapinduziEAF (CCM) to repeal all repressive laws during the transition to multi-party rule.
The commission's move to bring, under one conference table, all political parties vying for leadership was a step in the right direction, Civic United Front (CUF) Chairman James Mapalala said in Dar es Salaam.
He was responding to recent *castigations> made against him in the press by leaders of some opposition parties that in supporting the commission's initiative he had joined hands with CCM to oppose the convening of a national constitution conference.
Mapalala told The Express that after the commission's first meeting, he met the NCCR-Mageuzi Chairman Mabere Marando with whom he agreed to look into areas of the constitution that need review. These would be presented to the next sitting set for next month, he said.
"We view this as an opportunity and we want to seize and capitalize on it to the maximum. This is the right step. I just don't know why some of us (opposition) seem to have been angered by this", Mapalala wondered.
He said that most of, if not all, the opposition parties are in agreement on the issue of amending the constitution but they differ over the approach. "Our approach is peaceful. We are against militancy at this juncture," he stressed.
If the goal is to achieve changes in repressive laws, was not there any other way of going about it besides the most talked of constitutional conference? he asked.
"I believe we have started a good process in these meetings. I know that there are others who think I'm a *baffoon> by saying this. I'm not one. I only want peaceful solutions to our problems," he said.
"There are several ways of reaching that goal. Now that the ruling CCM maintains its stand against the conference, the other option would be resorting to violence. But "who wants violence today? I'm totally against such an idea," he stressed. 
Mrema comes under fire
THE Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Home Affairs, Augustine Mrema came under fire in Parliament this week, with one member of Parliament charging by implication that the minister was acting like Tanzania's High Court.
The Member of Parliament for Tarime, Kisyeri Chambiri, said at one time, the minister flew in a helicopter from Dar es Salaam to Kewanja (Nyangoto), a remote village in his constituency, and ordered that village leaders from the nearby villages of Kewanja, Nyangoto, Genkuru, Kerende and Nyaruwasa be locked up in custody because their villages were illegally prospecting for gold in the area.
Mrema had no consultations with the MP and other leaders on the move, and the prospecting rights were then given by the minister to an unregistered cooperative society, the Nyabigena Co-operative Society, he charged.
However, according to Chambiri, the Minister of Water, Energy and Mineral gave a different verdict early this year.
The villagers have the right to prospect in  thier><+_their> own land. When Mrema heard of the decision, he sent an order to the area, nullifying the Ministry ruling, something which could only be done by the High Court of Tanzania.
In an Exclusive interview outside Parliament later, the MP said not even the president had the powers to nullify a ministry decision on prospecting rights.
The Member of Parliament wondered in the House, "does it mean that when a person is given the post of Deputy Prime Minister is also given High Court powers?"
The House then broke into laughter, with Members of Parliament stumping their feet.
MP added: "We have not passed in this House any law empowering a Deputy Prime Minister to act like a court of appeal".
He then described how the villagers were being loyal with their "finds", as opposed to the co-operative.
Chambiri said between the date of the introduction of gold-buying centres in banks in July 1990 and May 12, 1991, when the Minister locked the villagers up, they had sold into the National Bank of Commerce (NBC) at Tarime, some 3,281.7 grams of gold.
The co-operative, on the other hand, has since September 7, 1991 to date sold a mere 206 grams. 
State House against prefabs
The State House is opposed to the 44 billion/- National Provident Fund (NPF) plan to import prefabricated homes in Tanzania.
According to very reliable sources, a plan that holds water as far as President Ali Hassan Mwinyi is concerned would be one leading to cheap and permanent structures for the targeted group of low-income earners.
He said according to available data the planned NPF structures did not meet any of the conditions and that was why they had met with a lot of opposition from different competent sectors of the Tanzanian society.
The sources said this when commenting on what State House stand was on the NPF plan and the Minister under whose portfolio falls the NPF, Ahmed Diria's words when he was addressing the new NPF Board of Directors.
"This is a governments project. It is not the NPF's. The NPF will only be implementing this big project on behalf of the government," Diria said adding that it should start at once.
Most of the people interviewed by The Express questioned the reasons behind Minister Diria and NPF's Director General Mustafa Mkulo's insistence on the project. They wondered who had the final say.
Commenting on the issue, the chairman of the Tanzania Association of Consultants (TACO) Aloyce Mushi said the prefabricated houses are too expensive and do not last more than five years.
Mushi who is also the president of the Federation of African Consultants (FECA) said it is not fair to spend people's savings on the type of house which could not last and which would be expensive for an ordinary worker to own.
In addition, he said the country had enough building materials which need to be exploited fully. Besides this he said people would get jobs if NPF decided to build the  house><+_houses> by using local materials.
"I don't understand why Minister Diria and NPF do not see all the negative points of importing these prefabricated houses," Mushi said.
He suggested that the NPF Board should reject Minister Diria's words and instead make thorough research on how to help low income earners before embarking on the project. 

W2C004T
Mwinyi welcomes German investors
PRESIDENT Mwinyi has invited German investors to launch economic ventures in Tanzania to enhance relations between the two countries.
In a speech at a banquet he hosted for visiting Federal Republic of Germany President Richard von Weizsacker at Ikulu in Dar es Salaam last night, EAFNdugu Mwinyi said Tanzania was encouraging the private sector to make its full contribution to revive the economy.
He commended Germany for its consistent assistance to Tanzania, which he said had helped the country improve agriculture, transport and communications.
Tanzania's efforts to achieve economic recovery and sustainable development had registered encouraging results, he said, adding that there was substantial increase in the production of both food and crash crops.
On the political scene, EAFNdugu Mwinyi added, Tanzania has already enacted a plan to introduce multi-partyism effective July 1, 1992.
The President told his guest that registration of new political parties would start on July 1.
The Government had managed to undertake such changes while at the same time maintaining national unity, peace and stability, EAFNdugu Mwinyi said.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi hailed  Germany><+_German> re-unification saying that the United Germany now had a more influential role in promoting and strengthening peace and better understanding among European nations and the rest of the world.
He said Tanzania believed that the positive changes in the world political scene would create a more conducive climate for all nations of the world to take collective action on the critical issues of poverty, debt, environment and co-operation.
Tanzanians hoped that all nations would strive to implement the conventions and agreements signed and adopted at the recent Earth Summit in Brazil for the common good of all mankind.
President von Weizsacker is today scheduled to visit the Organisation of Tanzania women (UTW), the Muhimbili Medical Centre, the Makonde Carvers' village and the Goethe Institute. 
Government plans to spend 429 bn/-
THE Government has projected to spend 428.7bn/- next fiscal year, Finance Minister Kighoma Malima told the Parliamentary Finance and Economic Affairs Committee in Dar es Salaam yesterday.
Professor Malima is scheduled to tell the National Assembly how he proposes to raise the money in a live radio broadcast from Karimjee Hall in the city on June 17.
In a pre-budget speech to the House committee yesterday, the Minister said the next budget would be bigger than the current one by 75.1bn/- or 21.3 per cent.
He said 292.8bn/- was projected as recurrent expenditure while 135.9bn/- would be development budget, 111 bn/- of it in foreign currency.
Some 112.4bn/- is budgeted for government ministries and departments, 37.8bn/- for the consolidated fund services and 45.4bn/- for special expenditure.
The Minister said the thrust would be to maximise revenue collection while holding down expenditure.
He said the Government would ensure that workers were answerable and responsible in implementing government directives during the 1993/94 financial year and that the people would contribute towards social services in the country.
To ensure that parastatal organisations are aggressive enough to face challenges from the private sector, Professor Malima said the Government was reviewing the current structures of banks and other financial institutions to create an *inducive> atmosphere for their activities.
Under the new budget, emphasis would be placed on critical scrutiny of the parastatal organisations to find out if they were efficient and profit-making.
He said the scrutinising would enable the Government to take an appropriate decision on whether they should be dissolved or should be run under joint ventures with private firms.
The Minister said currently the Government was making serious restructuring in the public sector reforms, especially in the Civil Service, parastatal sectors, financial sector and other changes in the planning and budget systems.
Professor Malima said the reforms were aimed at enabling the Government to integrate its demands with the available human and material resources and to ensure that it promotes social services.
"This means that the Government will leave economic and food production activities in the hands of the people (individuals) and facilitate smooth implementation of such projects to the people," the Minister added.
He said the Government would put more emphasis directly on developing social services such as water, health, education, transport, security and defence.
This financial year, he added, the Government had proposed to spend 11.461bn/- on health; 10.116bn/- on education; 1.337bn/- on water, energy and mineral resources; and 4.130bn/- for the works ministry, the Minister said.
Meningitis spreads to regions
TWELVE regions have now been hit by meningitis which has claimed at least 265 lives in Mwanza, Tabora, Mara, Dodoma and Kigoma, the Minister for Health Professor Philemon Sarungi told the "Daily News" in Dar es Salaam yesterday. He said the worst hit regions were Mwanza where out of 700 patients, 118 have died, Dodoma where 20 people have died out of 474 patients reported. Tabora had 269 patients and 59 died, Mara had 186 patients and 39 died while in Kigoma, 29 died out of a total of 126 patients.
He did not name other regions because of lack of data.
Professor Sarungi has stressed the need to involve the people in health education programmes to combat "meningitis" effectively.
He said *un awareness> by the people of the symptoms and preventive measures had contributed greatly to the spread of the epidemic.
The minister said most of those who died had been brought to hospital while in critical condition, saying the victims could be saved if sent to hospital early.
Professor Sarungi urged Tanzanians to isolate patients to avoid the disease from spreading further. "People should avoid overcrowding, fix big windows in their houses and allow more light in offices and sleeping rooms", he added.
Regretting over the rising number of people affected by meningitis, EAFNdugu Sarungi assured the people that his ministry would this year consolidate the public health services.
According to the minister, every region had been supplied with enough drugs and other facilities to fight the epidemic, adding that people should be *innoculated>.
"My ministry will make every effort to ensure that we succeed in the struggle against the epidemic," Professor Sarungi said and appealed to Tanzanians to contribute effectively to the national anti-meningitis struggle. 
Consolidation of CCM
Kolimba outlines further measures
CCM Secretary General Horace Kolimba has outlined further measures aimed at consolidating the Party which include strategies to boost membership, efficiency and accountability in its ranks.
*Adressing> employees of the Party Ideological College at Kivukoni in Dar es Salaam yesterday Kolimba said the measures were adopted by the Party National Executive Committee (NEC) in Dodoma last May.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said the move was part of CCM's agenda of cleansing itself, cutting red-tape and instilling accountability at all levels.
The Party Secretary General said effective tomorrow, CCM was embarking on special campaign to register more members. Already, 500,000 cards have been printed for the exercise.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said CCM would be more open for people to join it following relaxation of conditions, which among other things, demanded aspirants to attend a three month ideological training stint.
He said CCM was now consolidating as a mass Party--open for more people as it is not a vanguard Party of a few political *elites>.
Another area for strengthening, includes consolidation of its role among the people. The objective is to serve the people by providing necessary guidance and leadership.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said CCM would ensure that its leaders and functionaries rendered the best possible service to the people and avoided bureaucratic tendencies.
On cost-cutting, he said Party sittings had been reduced at national and regional levels. The Central Committee would now meet six times instead of 12, a year, while the NEC would meet twice instead of thrice.
The Party is operating closer to the people. Leaders have been directed to conduct regular meet-the-people sessions and send reports to CCM Chairman Ali Hassan Mwinyi.
To boost efficiency and accountability, several measures were going to be taken, including follow up on implementation of directives.
He also said that the 1990 General Elections Manifesto was going to be used as a guide for implementation of Party and Government programmes instead of drafting new policies.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said that more autonomy had been granted to mass organisations under CCM, pointing out that the Union of Tanzania Workers (JUWATA) and the Co-operative Union of Tanzania (WASHIRIKA) would be affiliated of the Party, while the Tanzania Youth Organisation (VIJANA), the Parents Organisation (WAZAZI) and Women's Organisation (UWT) would continue as mass organisations with more autonomy.
The spirit of voluntarism would be encouraged among Party ranks. CCM intends to operate with a tight budget, avoiding unnecessary expenses and debate.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said more emphasis would be placed on economic projects. 
We'll fight on - ANC 
THE ANC Deputy Vice-President, EAFNdugu Nelson Mandela, has said the warm and *tumultous> reception he received in Tanzania has strengthened his Party's resolve to fight apartheid until victory.
He told a cheering crown at the Samora Machel Stadium here yesterday that because of Tanzanians' support and the people's determination to eliminate racial discrimination, the ANC would forge ahead in the war against repressive policies.
EAFNdugu Mandela, impressed by the big crowd that had braved a heavy one-hour downpour, said he had defied doctor's  instruction><+_instructions> and had come out in the rain to salute the Iringa people. EAFNdugu Mandela said he had a bad cough.
The south African nationalist leader was honoured as a Hehe elder and a hero. He was given a traditional outfit which included EAFMgolole, a head turban, and a spear to illustrate the freedom fighter's heroism.
The short traditional ceremony was conducted by the Speaker of the National Assembly, Chief Adam Sapi Mkwawa, who is himself a Hehe.
Regional Party Secretary Mary Chipungahelo wrapped Winnie Mandela with a EAFkitenge.
The Iringa Regional Party Chairman, EAFNdugu Elia Sitaki, presented EAFNdugu Mandela with two articles about his trial in 1962, and a trial of Socrates, the Greek philosopher, thousands of years before Christ.
In both trials, the accused ably defended themselves and made fools of prosecutors and presiding judges by expounding the legitimacy of the action they were accused of.
An Iringa-based group of companies, Vacu-Lug, donated 100,000/- for the ANC offices in Tanzania.
In his message, EAFNdugu Sitaki said, "We are aware that apartheid continues in South Africa. The non-racial democratic movements and parties will need to strengthen their structures and organisation to meet the demand of the unfolding political climate."
Earlier, EAFNdugu Mandela was met at Nduli Airstrip by Party and Government leaders in the Region and other leaders from neighbouring Mbeya and Ruvuma Regions when he arrived straight from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
EAFNdugu Mandela hugged Elia Sitaki immediately after disembarking from a Zanzibar Revolutionary Government jet.
From the airstrip, EAFNdugu Mandela and his entourage rode to the Samora Machel Stadium. He leaves today for Morogoro to continue with his tour.
Meanwhile, Mussa Lupatu reports from Dodoma that the planned visit here yesterday by EAFNdugu Mandela was cancelled leaving many residents in the new capital disappointed for missing the chance.
EAFNdugu Mandela and his delegation were to have made a one hour and half visit on their way to Iringa from Addis Ababa.
Clearly disappointed, Dodoma residents who had started to fill the streets as early as 10 a.m. whereas the Mandelas were scheduled to touch down at 2.30 p.m., left for home dejected.
An official from CCM regional office confirming the cancellation, gave no reasons.
A public announcement by the CCM authorities on Thursday asked people to line-up the streets starting 1 p.m. However, the authorities were yesterday late to announce the cancellation.
The public were informed through a public address on the cancellation at 12 noon when the influx of people, some from the rural areas, was increasing.
In Morogoro, thousands of enthusiastic residents from all over the region have flocked into the municipality for what is billed as an historic opportunity to welcome EAFNdugu Mandela when he arrives this morning for a two-day visit.
All guest houses in town were fully booked by yesterday afternoon. Many late comers were seen moving from place to place in search of accommodation.

W2C005T 
Motion endorsed
MPs unanimous on Tanganyika
THE National Assembly yesterday unanimously endorsed a private motion seeking change in the present structure of the Union to create a separate government for Tanganyika.
The Government will now start drawing up procedures under which the people and different institutions country-wide would air views on the future of the Union, taking into account possibilities of forming the Tanganyika Government within the Union.
The motion was moved in the National Assembly on Monday by the Chunya MP, EAFNdugu Njelu Kasaka, on behalf of other 54 MPs who were signatories to the motion.
Debating the motion some MPs were cautious with the proposed changes in form of the Union, fearing that the move might lead to the break-down of the 29-year-old political marriage.
The Prime Minister and First Vice-President, EAFNdugu John Malecela, called for national solidarity and consensus to maintain in the Union, pointing out that selfish motives and pouring blames on each other "will push us apart."
EAFNdugu Malecela said, "If we want the Union to survive we should be ready to sacrifice some of our interests... and all that for the sake of maintaining the Union."
EAFNdugu Malecela who is the government leader in the House appealed to MPs and Tanzanians not to be divided. "We should stop crossing swords, but strive at understanding each other," he added.
The Premier urged Tanzanians, particularly those in the mainland not to ignore the historical and political sensitivity of Zanzibar. "Unlike Tanganyika which attained independence through campaigning on platforms, Zanzibaris shed blood," he said.
"On attaining independence through a revolution, during which some people were be-headed, the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government and Council took charge of the Isles.
"Therefore, when we talk about the Union we must take into account those important historical and political issues. They are apparently sensitive and must not be ignored." the Premier explained.
The Minister of State in the Office of the Union Second Vice-President, EAFNdugu Mohamed Seif Khatib, said that Zanzibar had always  strived><+_striven> at fostering the Union and in the process made a lot of sacrifice.
EAFNdugu Khatib said in 1964, the then Zanzibar President the late EAFMzee Abeid Amani Karume, stepped down as president of a sovereign state to become Vice-President of Tanzania.
The minister also said that during a political crisis in the Isles in mid-1980s, in which the three governments structure of the union was among proposals, several politicians were kicked out, in a bid to safeguard the Union.
"The victims of that political pollution were Zanzibaris, including the then President of Zanzibar, EAFNdugu Aboud Jumbe. Sometimes in the late 1980s some politicians from Zanzibar were also kicked out of CCM; all that in the name of fostering the union," the minister said.
EAFNdugu Khatib was cautious on the future of the Union and urged Tanzanians to be careful in charting out the path which would determine the destiny of the nation.
EAFNdugu Khatib ended by praying "God bless Tanganyika."
EAFNdugu Ramadhani Nzori (Jang'ombe) echoed Minister Khatib, in asking the people from the mainland not to have ill-feelings on their brethren in the Isles, insisting that Zanzibaris have sacrificed a lot to safeguard the Union.
EAFNdugu Sebastian Kinyondo (Bukoba Rural) said that many Tanzanians still want the Union, but the problem was its administration under the present structure. He said he was looking forward to see a draft on the proposed Tanganyika government before April 1995.
EAFNdugu Arcado Ntagazwa (Kibondo) lauded the Government for facilitating the motion to go through and ultimately declare a positive stand on its motive. "That is a victory to CCM," he added.
EAFNdugu Venance Ngula (Nation) said time has come to revisit the structure of the Union since Tanzania as a society was dynamic. However, the MP called for strict adherence to the law to maintain order in the land.
EAFNdugu Tuntemeke Sanga (Makete) said he was opposed to three governments system, demanding one government. He said three governments were costly and negated the spirit of the Union and Pan-Africanism.
"Tanganyika died in 1964. Time has now come for Zanzibar to follow suit and have one government, one nation and one identity," he said
Winding up debate, EAFNdugu Jenerali Ulimwengu (National) and EAFNdugu Kasaka hailed the Government for co-operating and declaring Support to the motion.
Tanganyika motion in 
The Government yesterday supported a motion calling for change in the present form of the Union to have a separate Government for Tanganyika.
The Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs, EAFNdugu Samuel Sitta, gave the Government's stand in the National Assembly, after a private motion that asked it facilitate country-wide consultation on the future of the Union was moved.
The minister said the motion moved by EAFNdugu Njelu Kasaka (Chunya) on behalf of other 54 MPs was logical and important to the country's political, social and economic development.
EAFNdugu Sitta said the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania was supporting the motion in its entirety. "I am also in support of it personally as a Member of Parliament for Urambo", the minister added.
The motion which was on Sunday endorsed unanimously by parliamentarians while sitting in camera as a committee of CCM MPs, asks the Government to draw up procedures under which the people and institutions country-wide would be required to give views on the Union.
The views of the people and different institutions should take into account the possibilities for creation of a Tanganyika government within the union structure, so says the motion and gives a deadline of April 1995, for the Government to submit its report in the National Assembly.
EAFNdugu Sitta said that the motion has heralded a new chapter for the country's political history and a triumph to CCM and its Government for resolving issues through national consensus and fostering the people's will in all important affairs.
The minister said some people misunderstood the motive of those who advocated and brought this motion thinking that they were rebels among the ranks of CCM members and MPs.
"They are our brothers they were just fostering the country's political process and they have done that logically, judiciously and democratically, I salute them," EAFNdugu Sitta said.
Moving the motion, EAFNdugu Kasaka said the purpose of the idea was not to dissolve the 29-year-old political marriage between the then Tanganyika and Zanzibar. He said the motion was aimed at achieving equity for both partners in the union - Tanzania Mainland and Zanzibar. 
EAFNdugu Kasaka said under the present form the union gave more autonomy to Zanzibar, to the extent that people in the mainland were now complaining that they were not getting the right to conduct their internal affairs.
The MP said that soon after the Union in April 1964, the then Tanganyika offered *offerd> all authority to the Union Government, while Zanzibar did that partially.
EAFNdugu Kasaka said the Zanzibar Revolutionary Government contrary to expectations of Tanzanians on the Mainland not only consolidated itself, but was at present blocking the authority of the Union Government in Zanzibar.
"For example the Zanzibar Government does not allow Mainlanders to assume leadership in departments and other public offices under the Union jurisdiction in the isles. It also blocks transfers of public servants from the Mainland to Zanzibar."
"Zanzibar is of late not having the Union face. But, on the other hand Zanzibaris have continued to be picked for offices in the Union Government on the Mainland. While Zanzibaris were free to come to the Mainland and do whatever they liked; their counter-parts on the Mainland were not enjoying the similar treat.
"This gives the impression of having double standards for people on the two sides of the union, which is against the spirit of the country's constitution on equal rights of all citizens," he said.
EAFNdugu Kasaka said another alternative for his motion was the creation of one government; but that idea was demonstrably not likely to be accepted by the Zanzibaris, therefore, the logical conclusion was to have a three governments system.
The MP dismissed as unfounded the idea that the Union would collapse under three governments, contending that the Union would survive if the principles which led to its formation will continue to be observed.
"If the Union was founded by consensus it would collapse soon after such a situation ceases to exist; likewise the union founded by force would go, upon degeneration of forces which tied up the system together," he said.
"Somalia was one nation and today it has disintegrated; while what was then known as Soviet Union (USSR) comprised 16 republics and the system collapsed," he said, adding that "the form of the Union was not the sole factor to guarantee its survival or otherwise."
EAFNdugu Kasaka was seconded by EAFNdugu Said Abdallah Nakuwa (I.indi).
Debate on the motion continues today. 
83 varsity students fired
Names released
THE Council of the-University of Dar es Salaam yesterday released names of 83 students expelled from the university for failure to fill forms issued to them last Thursday.
A press release issued by the university's Public Relations Office stated that by failing to fill the "Form A/I", the students had discontinued themselves from studies at the university and directed that they should have left the campus by 4.00 p.m. yesterday.
However, the Dar es Salaam University students' Organisation (DARUSO), yesterday morning asked the High Court to stop the expulsions pending hearing of an application to quash the decision of the council on grounds that it was illegal, unfair and unreasonable.
DARUSO's application is expected to be heard ex-parte this morning by Justice Anthony Bahati, according to a source at the High Court.
The statement issued by the university listed 11 students who have been asked to fill the "Form A/I and other 25 whose appeals were still under consideration. It was, however, not indicated when the verdict of the said 25 students would be announced.
It was further stated that seven students, all from the Faculty of Law, who had failed to fill the forms for different reasons, had their appeals rejected by the council.
Expelled students from the Faculty of Science are: <names/>
From the Faculty of Law are: <names/>
From the Faculty of Engineering are: <names/>
From the Faculty of Commerce and Management are; <names/>
There was no student expelled from the Muhimbili University College of Health Sciences.
From the Faculty of Education are:.
Twenty-eight students were expelled from the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences. They are: <names/>.
Others are: <names/>.
Seven law students who had their appeals rejected are: <names/>.
Students whose appeals were still under consideration are: <names/>.
According to documents filed at the High court by DARUSO, the students' organisation contends that the University council "has misused its statutory powers by entertaining proceedings that have infringed the students' constitutional right to an education".
They also charge that the council has failed to conduct proper inquiry on circumstances that led to the present crisis at the Hill. This, they claim, was through lack of participation.
DARUSO in its application filed through Dar es Salaam advocate Mabere Marando, stated that the council "has been unreasonable to require students to sign forms committing themselves to conditions which were non-existent at a time of registration and the law; and in turn the council has used the same to punish the students for acts which were done before signing of the said forms."
Police *quizz> Sheikh Yahya
Evil factors must be crushed, say Mrema
LEADER of the Qoran Development Council of Tanzania (BALUKTA) Sheikh Yahya Hussein was last evening picked up by the police following government's crackdown on muslim fundamentalists who destroyed pork butcheries in Magomeni and Tandale in Dar es Salaam last Friday.
The police had earlier searched Sheikh Yahya's houses at Magomeni Mikumi and Kinondoni before taking him to the Central Police Station. He rode in his Range Rover TZD 2925 followed by police to the station.
A Daily News team following the event was refused to take photographs. It was also barred from entering the Central Police Station by Field Force Unit soldiers.
By the time we went to the press, police were still quizzing Sheikh Yahya.
People calling themselves Islamic fundamentalists on Good Friday, destroyed pork butcheries in Magomeni.
The attack has been strongly condemned by the country's top leadership, including President Mwinyi.
Meanwhile, the Minister for Home Affairs and Deputy Premier, EAFNdugu Augustine Mrema, said yesterday the Government had launched a full-scale operation against the Muslim group to "destroy its roots in the country."
EAFNdugu Mrema said no one would be spared regardless of who they were or how rich they were. "A criminal is a criminal and will be dealt with accordingly," the Minister stressed.
He warned Tanzanians to be wary of a few greedy individuals who were hoarding wealth to finance evil designs to cause chaos by using the poor masses.
"These people are not Muslims. We know who the real Muslims are. These are political thugs," EAFNdugu Mrema said.
He said the Government had substantial evidence on their evil activities. He, however, appealed to anyone with information that will help police investigations to volunteer it.
The Home Affairs Minister was dismayed that mosques have been turned into political arenas for the destruction of the Tanzanian nation instead of being houses of worship. 
W2C006T
Kolimba blasts 'fascist' leaders
<ea_>CHAMA Cha MapinduziEAF (CCM) has sounded a strong warning to opposition parties and directed its two governments (Union and Zanzibar) to use the state's coercive powers against those bent on inciting people into breaking the law.
Addressing a big rally at the Mnazi Mmoja grounds in Dar es Salaam yesterday to mark CCM's 16th anniversary, Secretary-General Horace Kolimba said the Government should be  taught><+_tough> when it comes to safeguarding the country's peace.
"The Government should not hesitate to use its force against people who deliberately break the law. Our two governments should act immediately and forcefully," he stressed.
He said Tanzania was now at cross-roads following the full registration of five other political parties but warned the leaders to observe the rules of the game and refrain from inciting the people into breaking the law.
EAFNdugu Kolimba said one leader of an opposition party was a "fascist" or had fascist inclinations because of what he described as "sweet but dangerous talking".
He said fascists throughout history have behaved the same - disregard for the rule of law, preaching ethnic, tribal, religious, or racial hatred.
He said fascists tended to ignore the constitution and use the people to go on the rampage in the streets.
"If you hear a leader preaching to people on how to break the law, such leader has fascist tendencies," he cautioned.
He said the language of fascists was the same - they do not respect life, they speak of the spilling of blood. But when things get tough, they are the first to hide. He asked the Tanzanians to reject such people.
In what seemed to be the launching of a campaign for local government polls, which are not due till October this year, EAFNdugu Kolimba told the rally that CCM leaders had tolerated provocations from the opposition not because of cowardice, or weakness but because it was a democratic party which believes that victory should be through the ballot box.
"CCM is a powerful party and would use all its might to fight against the disruption of peace in the country," he said.
He asked Tanzanians to reject parties agitating for chaos and bloodshed, saying they should not get a single seat in the local councils.
"One way to denounce such policies is to reject them during the forthcoming local government elections," he stressed.
EAFNdugu Kolimba also criticised the leader of NCCR-Mageuzi, EAFNdugu Mabere Marando, for urging the President of the United Republic to interfere with court proceedings and order the release of "Reverend" Christopher Mtikila who is facing criminal charges.
He said Marando, as a practising lawyer, wants to interfere with the law and wondered what he (Marando) stood for.
The rally was to be addressed by CCM Chairman Ali Hassan Mwinyi, but unfortunately he could not do so because he was still visiting the flood stricken Lushoto and Korogwe areas in Tanga Region.
Earlier, the CCM Regional Secretary, EAFNdugu Thadeus Kasapila, read a message on behalf of Dar es Salaam members.
He said the registration of five political parties now gave the people the chance to choose between rice and chaff and condemned parties which incited the people to violence. 
Namibia becomes free nation tonight
PREPARATIONS for Namibia's independence have now reached advanced stage as world leaders and top-ranking diplomats started arriving in the capital Windhoek to witness the *tranformation> on Wednesday of Africa's last colony into an independent African sovereign state.
Officials in Windhoek have dubbed the gathering as the "most important event of the year" which will bring together heads of state and foreign ministers across the globe to discuss various burning issues of political nature.
For security reasons, many countries had declined to announce the number of their delegations ahead of arrival, but there will be at least 147 official missions in Windhoek, Namibian protocol spokesman Andreas Guibeb, told reporters.
Virtually all the Frontline States and the entire African continent will be represented in Windhoek by heads of state while countries from farther afield will be represented at cabinet level.
The unfolding political situation in South Africa is likely to attract the most attention from the leaders, given the presence of the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) current Chairman, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and African National Congress (ANC) leader Nelson Mandela.
United States Secretary of State James Baker has already announced his intention to meet both Mandela and Mubarak in Windhoek where they will be attending the independence celebrations.
The discussions are likely to focus on the need to encourage the African governments to quickly create the climate for negotiations as demanded by the OAU Harare Declaration.
From Windhoek, Baker will be meeting South African racist President F.W. de Klerk, Anglican Archbishop Desmond Tutu and leaders of the Mass Democratic Movement in Cape Town.
"Our wish at this stage is to encourage negotiations, and we do like this to happen soonest", said a United States observer mission official in Windhoek, adding: "We are trying to see we can do to contribute to that".
Meanwhile, the Pretoria regime announced last Friday that it would begin "talks about talks" with Mandela and exiled leaders of the African National Congress on April 11.
The *super powers> are also keen to end the stalemate in resolving the political conflict in Angola where war between the Luanda Government and Unita (National Union for Total Independence of Angola) led by bandit Jonas Savimbi is still raging.
While Soviet Union Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze was scheduled to meet Angolan President Eduardo dos Santos on Sunday, Baker plans to have talks with Zairean President Mobutu Sese Seko as mediator in the Angolan conflict. Baker will also be meeting puppet Jonas Savimbi during his tour of Southern Africa.
Mother Africa gives birth to Namibia
THE sun set on Africa's last colony today when racist South Africa lowered its flag over Namibia to make way for the world's newest independent nation.
Scores of foreign delegations flocked into Windhoek, capital of the vast desert territory to see Pretoria hand over power at midnight (2200 GMT) to a government led by the militant South-West Africa People's Organisation (Swapo).
UN Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar, who arrived on Monday, presided over celebrations which bring to an end the world body's most expensive and most successful peacekeeping operation.
The UN mission to supervise the transition to independence began in near-disaster last April when South African troops killed hundreds of Swapo guerrillas who had crossed the border from Angola.
In Namibia, bitter recriminations have now given way to reconciliation.
"Today, I return to take part in the celebration of a hope fulfilled. The world now speaks of a Namibian model in praise of the restraint, tolerance and political maturity demonstrated by Namibians," Perez de Cuellar said on arrival.
Independent Namibia's first President Sam Nujoma, who led Swapo in its 23-year guerrilla war against Pretoria's illegal occupation, accepted the reins of government from his old adversary, South African apartheid leader F.W. de Klerk, at the independence ceremony.
Meetings between the scores of world leaders and officials attending the celebrations were also scheduled to take place during the celebrations.
Windhoek, a small quiet town with a Germanic colonial favour, has also become an incongruous venue for world leaders to assess the results of Sunday's East German elections, won by the pro-unification Conservative alliance.
US Secretary of State James Baker and Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze were to meet this evening and Baker was scheduled to have talks with West German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher the following day.
Earlier Baker was to have held talks with Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos, the highest-level meeting ever between the two countries.
Top of the agenda would be Luanda's 15-year civil war with bandits of the so-called National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (Unita), which has *intesified> following an *arbotive> ceasefire last year.
Freed African National Congress (ANC) leader Nelson Mandela was also expected to meet Baker and other western officials.
Mandela had refused to meet Baker in South Africa, the US Secretary of State's next stop, because of the ANC's policy of promoting South Africa's political, diplomatic and economic isolation.
But he had indicated readiness to talk to Baker and other leaders in Namibia now that Pretoria has relinquished control there.
South African racist President F.W. de Klerk and Angolan President EAFNdugu Jose Eduardo dos Santos held talks this morning in Windhoek, hours before Namibia declared her independence from South Africa.
The meeting, which was also attended by the foreign ministers of the two countries, was de Klerk's first in a series of talks arranged with African leaders for the day.
No details of the talks are available. But the two leaders briefly discussed the ongoing military conflict between Angolan Government forces and the anti-government bandits of Unita.
The South African apartheid leader will also meet with two European ministers whose identities have not yet been revealed.
De Klerk was also scheduled to meet with United Nations Secretary-General Javier Perez de Cuellar this afternoon.
Meanwhile, reports from Lagos said the Nigerian Federal Government has appointed Major-General Joseph Garba as the first Nigerian ambassador to Namibia, the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reported yesterday. 
Illegal aliens must be deported - Mwinyi
PRESIDENT Mwinyi yesterday ordered immediate deportation of immigrants who entered the country illegally from Rwanda and Burundi.
He told Kagera regional leaders at the end of a five-day visit that people from the two countries coming to Tanzania after 1986 must follow immigration procedures.
"There is official agreement on this. All those who came in illegally after 1986 should be expelled immediately," he said.
He was reacting to reports by the regional leaders that the influx of illegal immigrants to the border districts was alarming.
Regional Party Chairman Pius Ngeze told the President yesterday that the "invasion" was a long-term security risk.
According to Regional Commissioner Paul Kimiti, there are up to 20.000 illegal immigrants from Rwanda in the region. The number increases daily.
The President said the three countries had agreed that only immigrants who were in Tanzania by 1982 would be excluded from immigration formalities.
"Those who came in between 1983 and 1986 would also be allowed to stay but they must be listed and obtain identification papers from their countries of origin," he explained.
The regional leaders had complained that most of the immigrants were not law-abiding. Many loathed farming.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi said the guests must follow the law and will not be allowed to settle along the border.
Meanwhile, President Mwinyi has directed that disciplinary action should be taken against employees refusing transfer to Kagera.
He told the regional leaders that employment regulations were clear that refusal of transfer amounted to *insurbordination>.
He was informed by the leaders that medical specialists, teachers and other experts were rejecting transfers to the region, resulting in acute shortage of trained staff.
The President criticised employers who continued paying salaries to workers refusing transfer.
He urged Kagera leaders to give retainer incentives to people coming to work here, including allocating them farms and livestock at *concessionary> terms.
The regional leaders called for pan-territorial pricing of building materials and major consumer goods which, they said, sold at unaffordable rates.
A bag of cement sells at 1,800/- in Bukoba town, rising to 2,500/- in the districts.
Bukoba residents handed the President with 525,000/- for the Party Consolidation Fund. They also gave him various presents, including a 100-kilogramme banana bunch.
Earlier, the President launched a fund to rehabilitate the Kagera Regional Hospital. Bukoba businessmen opened the account with 721,000/- and hospital materials valued at 382,000/-.
President Mwinyi contributed 500,000/- to the project, involving renovation and replacement of buildings and equipment.
Kagera Regional Medical Officer Kivurunya Mtera suggested that the Government should finance the project to speed up implementation.
President Mwinyi left for Arusha yesterday. He was expected to stop over in Mwanza to inspect repairs of mv. EAFUmoja, a grounded ferry boat used to move export coffee from Bukoba to Mwanza. 

W2C007T
Uganda challenges Britain over communism
THE contention by British Prime Minister John Major that communism was the main source of problems bedevilling most poor countries was crushed here yesterday by Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni.
Conference to communism featured in Mr. Major's remarks during the first closed session of the Commonwealth leaders' summit which started earlier yesterday.
Confining himself to Africa, EAFNdugu Museveni countered by arguing that the problems that countries within the continent faced were neither created nor compounded by communism.
He further argued that even if communism were completely wiped off the scene, those problems would not vanish correspondingly.
The Major-Museveni divergence of opinion was brought to the attention of journalists during a briefing session conducted by the Director of *Informantion> in the Commonwealth Secretariat, Mrs. Patsy Robertson.
Mr Major is also reported to have pushed the theory that "the South African problem is a South African problem", saying the onus of solving it lay with the people of that country.
He is of the opinion that the international community could be asked "only to help" but should not get too deeply involved there.
The opinion differs from that of several other leaders, including Jamaican Premier Michael Manley. He advocates that sanctions against South Africa must be maintained and lifted gradually, in step with evident movement towards a non-racial one-man-one-vote system.
Sentiments by the Canadian Prime Minister, Mr Brian Mulroney, gave an inkling of the controversial character of the human rights question.
He asked his `Club' colleagues to make a declaration putting individual freedom and human rights at the forefront of international relations.
He declared: "For Canada, the future course is clear: We shall be increasingly channelling our development assistance to those countries that show respect for fundamental human rights - Canada will not subsidise repression and the stifling of democracy."
His Indian counterpart, Mr. Narasimha Rao, urged the summit, on the contrary," to spend more time on seeking ways of helping backward member countries develop their economies.
He said there were many potential democracies in the 'Club' but most countries were striving to raise the standard of living of their peoples and could not thus preoccupy themselves with democracy.
The question of what constitutes a democratic system sparked a lively debate amongst Commonwealth leaders during their closed door session yesterday.
The General feeling was that developed countries tended to impose terms on developing countries on what democracy implied.
Commonwealth Secretariat spokesperson *Partsy> Robertson quoted Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad as posing a cynical question: "Is it up to the donor country to decide what system is democratic and which isn't?"
Dr. Mohamad said it was unfair for countries in the North to judge those in the South by the standards of the former.
There was no democracy in British colonies, he noted, and yet - he further noted - immediately after attaining independence, the ex-colonies were expected, overnight, to adopt a system that Britain took ages to evolve.
He said it was improper to dismiss one-party states as undemocratic, a theme which Kenyan President Daniel arap Moi picked up, and pleased that African countries needed time to assess what system suited them best.
He emphasised that whatever system they adopted would have to be tied to the promotion of economic development.
Mwinyi asks rich for help
PRESIDENT Ali Hassan Mwinyi has decried the poverty afflicting millions of people in the Third World.
He was emphatic that the poverty ought to be alleviated because it not only hurt and degraded its victims, but also eroded human happiness.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi, who is leading Tanzania's delegation to the 28th Commonwealth Leaders' Summit, spoke at yesterday's session which, like preceding and forthcoming ones, was held in camera.
In his speech - a copy of which was obtained by the Daily News on Saturday - the President criticised the tendency of attributing Africa's economic problems to the internal constraints in individual countries.
Contributing to the economic review agenda item, EAFNdugu Mwinyi - who was revisiting a theme he has dwelt on several times before - noted that the negative impact of external factors on the economies of poor countries was never highlighted.
He observed that whereas internal weaknesses contributed to economic problems, those of an external - induced nature like declining commodity prices, heavy indebtedness and debt-service obligations compounded them.
The President reminded his 40 plus club colleagues that the 80's constituted the worst decade for African countries since they attained independence, and that prospects for the 90's were  break><+_bleak>.
He reminded them too, that would-be remedial efforts through structural adjustment and related programmes undertaken with advice from, among others the IMF and the World Bank, did not pay off significantly.
"That confirms our long-standing position that there are external factors which have a far greater impact on our development efforts than is often acknowledged," EAFNdugu Mwinyi remarked.
The President said the commonwealth should renew its commitment to North-South dialogue and emphasised that by helping the poor to help themselves, the international community would be laying a foundation for a peaceful and prosperous world for all *manking>.
He also expressed hope that the end of the Cold War would create a more conducive climate for the nations of the world to take collective action on critical issues that include poverty, debt, environment, development and co-operation.
Late today, club leaders will leave Harare for the traditional weekend retreat at Victoria Falls - the largest curtain of water in the world. 
Budget
MINIMUM wage earners will get a 40 per cent rise in addition to tax  reliefs><+_relief> and a range of policy measures to reduce the cost of living and improve social welfare.
The package is part of the 1991/92 government budget proposals tabled in the National Assembly in Dar es Salaam yesterday by Finance Minister Steven Kibona.
He told the House that the wage rise would diminish to 15 per cent for the highest paid civil servants. The new minimum wage, effective July, computes to 3,500/-.
Family tax relief will rise to 100/- from 60/- monthly in July while 50/- will be retained for each child, up from 10/-.
EAFNdugu Kibona said civil servants in Dar es Salaam would draw 1,000/- monthly transport allowance instead of 700/-.
Government employees will benefit from housing, furniture and car loans to be introduced in the new financial year. The furniture and car loans would be managed by the Treasury while the Tanzania Housing Bank will administer the housing fund.
The Minister proposed to reduce Customs duty and sales tax on sugar from 30 to 20 per cent and waive the tax on bread, tractor tyres and bottle coolers.
"It is the hope of the Government that these measures will benefit the consumer," he said. EAFNdugu Kibona told a press briefing earlier that the tax reductions were intended to lower consumer prices.
He told the House that importers of buses intended to serve the rural areas would be exempted from customs duty and sale tax after registering with regional authorities.
Tanzanians returning after staying abroad for more than one year will not pay customs duty on their imports, including one car. Tax exemption on car applies once every four years.
Meanwhile, the Government has proposed three funds for road maintenance, housing and plots development.
EAFNdugu Kibona told the National Assembly that the roads fund would draw 5/50 of the 7/- road toll charged on every litre of petrol and diesel in the new financial year as an interim measure.
The remaining 1/50 collected from each litre will be used to maintain regional roads under supervision of the Ministry of Regional Administration and Local Governments.
The Minister said in the long-term the roads fund would be sustained by vehicle registration, road licence, vehicle transfer fees and petroleum products levy.
He said the housing fund to be managed by the Treasury would start with 600m/- to be loaned to public and private developers who will build low cost houses for sale. The fund will draw resources from the payroll levy charged on employers.
EAFNdugu Kibona said the plots development revolving fund would be made of fees to be charged on land survey. The fund will be under the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development and would give priority to plots allocated under the housing fund. 
Science Ministry to open zones
THE Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education will open eight zonal offices this financial year to take its services closer to the people.
The minister, Dr. William Shija, told the National Assembly in Dar es Salaam yesterday that regions and districts were expected to form science and technology committees to work closely with the zonal offices.
He said one of the zonal offices would be in Dodoma and will cater for Dodoma and Singida regions.
The Southern Zone seated in Mtwara will cover Ruvuma, Lindi and Mtwara regions while the Isles Zone enveloping all Zanzibar and Pemba regions will be based in Zanzibar.
Dr. Shija, who was presenting the 1991/92 estimates for his ministry, said Mbeya, Iringa and Rukwa regions would be grouped into the South-Western Zone *headquartered> in Mbeya.
The Coastal Zone grouping Coast, Dar es Salaam and Morogoro regions will be based in Kibaha while the Western Zone with its offices in Tabora will serve Kigoma, Shinyanga and Tabora regions.
The Northern Zone (Arusha, Kilimanjaro and Tanga regions) will operate from Arusha. The eighth zonal office in Mwanza will *caret> for Mwanza, Kagera and Mara regions.
The minister said the branches, to be headed by zonal officers, would entice people to use modern technology and coordinate research in science and technology.
They would assist inventors to develop prototypes, and handle applications for higher education.
Dr. Shija said the regional committees would be chaired by regional commissioners and include three or four other members appointed by the RC.
The district committee would comprise the district commissioner, district executive director and the Member of parliament. 
The minister said the district committees would be the basic vehicles for the drive to promote science and technology in the rural areas.
He told the House that his ministry would this year take stock of appropriate and new technologies *adoped> in the different parts of the country to *termine> how to develop them.
The ministry would, meantime, encourage wider use of animal drawn carts, fuel efficient cooking stoves and setting up of biogas plants in livestock keeping regions such as Shinyanga.
New technologies would be promoted to improve water storage in the rural areas, food processing, farm implements and production of low cost building materials.
Dr. Shija warned that unless developing countries invested more in scientific research and development, the gap between them and the rich North would continue to grow.
He told the House that while countries in the North were spending between two and three per cent of the gross national product in research and development (R and D), developing nations spared a meagre 0.5 per cent for this.
He said his ministry would rationalise research institutions to eliminate duplication of efforts.
A fund for the advancement of science and technology would be launched to support institutions producing improved tools for use in the rural areas, he said. The minister said a centre would be established to vet imported technologies, which would protect the country from being *turnend> to a dump for substandard and outmoded equipment.
He said the government would discourage importation of items which can be manufactured locally. Children's toys were one example.
Dr. Shija outlined plans to establish an academy of sciences, which would promote all types of sciences.
Govt to post one expert in each village
THE Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development will post one expert in each village by 1992 and has taken measures to correct misallocations.
This was resolved here by regional agricultural and livestock officers, zonal research directors and other officials of the ministry, after their two-day conference over the weekend.
In one of the resolutions, the conference called on regional administrations to review their man-power positions.
Dar es Salaam, Tabora, Singida, Morogoro, Mbeya, Kigoma, Kilimanjaro, Rukwa, Dodoma and Ruvuma regions, which have more experts than the number of villages have been urged to reallocate the experts.
W2C008T
Emperor has no clothes
FOREX racket axis unveiled
The anti-corruption campaign of the Minister of Home Affairs has reached a new low.
Readers will recall that the money/gold smugglers caught red-handed with shs 173 million at Dar es Salaam International Airport by Minister of Home Affairs Augustine Mrema were released unconditionally after revealing to the Minister who they were working for.
The Minister promised to name the "big shots", but instead named a dozen unknown and unlucky citizens, foreign diplomats and aid workers who had their names on the travellers cheques which made up a fraction (5 percent) of the total value of the haul.
On June 22nd, President Mwinyi further clarified the meaning of "EAFvigogo" (literal meaning: tree-trunk or logs; colloquially: those who are difficult to move, big shots). Talking to journalists he said the big shots "were not necessarily directors or cabinet ministers as the public may have been led to think. "I think it is matter of vocabulary, he said... He said the people named to have allegedly sold illegally their travellers cheques... were referred to as `big shots' because they were notorious in this act of sabotage".
No journalist is reported to have asked the President about the identities of the owners of the remaining Shs 164 million worth of loot which was not in the form of travellers cheques.
The identities of the big shots were revealed to Mrema by the well-known Zanzibar businessman Naushad Mohamed Selemani, who was carrying by far the largest portion of the 173 million/- haul. Naushad regularly flies the Zanzibar-Dar-Dubai route carrying money and other goodies on behalf of (mostly private sector) "big shots". Normally passing unhindered through the VIP lounge, he is popular among airport officials in Dar and Zanzibar for his generous handouts. When apprehended he challenged Mrema either to charge him in court - where the names of the big shots would be made public - or let him go. Mrema let him go.
The identities of the big shots are by now known to a fair proportion of the population of this *gossippy> town.
Instead of resigning - which would have signalled that he was frustrated by his boss from carrying out his clean-up campaign - Mrema instead went on the offensive and started hounding the unfortunate victims of this exercise, as identified by himself and endorsed by the President.
First, luckless United Nations volunteer A.K. Bose had his diplomatic immunity waived by his UNDP boss for US $ 2000 worth of TCs. "The move by the UN was aimed at facilitating legal procedures against Mr Bose" says the Daily News of June 28th.
Then FAO expert Mr L. Bakkeren is sacked for having been the owner of US $ 1,000 of intercepted TCs. As with the UNDP, FAO boss Richard Fuller hurries to deliver up his employee to the mercies of Mrema. In a statement, Mr Fuller is reported as saying that: "This cannot be tolerated or go unpunished." Disciplinary action would be taken against Mr. Bakkeren "for using his official position for financial gains." Bravo, Mr Fuller for your principled stand.
Mr Mrema then warns expatriates "not to involve themselves in illegal transactions, to avoid embarrassment."
Earlier, a foreign passenger is arrested and charged for trying to smuggle US $ 4,100 out of the country. Because his offence falls under the "economic sabotage" legislation, he is denied bail.
Finally, among much publicity and controversy, Mrema announces a "denounce a criminal" day, encouraging citizens to expose known criminals to the authorities.
Black is beautiful
What is this black market which so obsesses Mrema and Co?
This is how it functions. Let's start with Knut, who is working on a bilateral aid project funded by SCANDINIDA. He finances part of his living expenses with hard currency transferred from home to his external account at the NBC's Foreign Branch. But he also has an unofficial account in Patel's Bank (Ptv) (1984) Ltd. Samora Avenue Branch, through which he finances the major portion of his living expenses.
The 10,000/- salary he pays Juma, his nightwatchman, comes from Patel's Bank. Likewise, Knut's wife, Eva, shops with black money in Kinondoni's EAFMzungu (TX) market, where prices are prohibitive if calculated at the official exchange rate. (The more moralistic anti-black market <slang/>expats import almost everything they consume, including frozen onions, peanuts, and ice-cream).
Knut and Eva also use black money to rent video tapes, buy Tusker Premium, petrol, meals at the Casanova Restaurant and the Pearl Club, occasional week-ends in Mikumi Lodge etc.
All these purchases and activities are taxed, thus contributing to government revenue.
Transactions between Knut and Patel may take place through the diplomatic and regular mail, or by fax or telex; so there is no risk of anybody getting caught carrying cash, which is a primitive means of exchange. Only the lower class and less reputable type of business is transacted on a cash basis, partly through lack of trust between the parties involved. (Cash has been largely replaced by bits of plastic called credit cards in the capitalist countries).
Knut's SCANDINIAN forex helps the Patels to purchase cooking oil from Singapore, shirts from Dubai, and car spares from Japan. Last year, according to Minister Kibona's budget speech, an estimated US $ 250 million worth of intermediate and consumer goods came into the country in this way. These black market imports have been the biggest economic success of the adjustment process to date. Many observers think that bringing consumer goods back to the villages did more than anything else to coax farmers back into the cash economy after 1986.
The "black" market for foreign exchange is therefore part of the financial base of one of the few efficiently functioning parts of our economy. It involves almost all the Knuts working for embassies, aid missions, and private companies in the country and a large proportion of the Patels, etc... Many local Africans are also involved in the Knut-Patel networks in one way or another.
Rent-seeking revisited
Very large amounts of black money also come from smuggling gold, gemstones, drugs, and ivory. Somali, Korean and other foreign businessmen and locals (public and private) are heavily involved in this trade. The biggest ivory smuggler caught to date was the former Indonesian Ambassador. The on-going anti-poaching campaign, "Operation Uhai", rounds up, prosecutes and imprisons numerous peasant poachers, but not the "big shot" interests who make the big money
The higher echelons of Party and state can afford to denounce the black marketeers since they get most of their forex directly from BoT - at the official exchange rate. But many of the ruling class are also heavily involved in unofficial currency transactions, the most blatant of which is renting accommodation and office space to foreign diplomatic and aid missions, and private businessmen for offshore forex.
Local Asians and Africans in both private and public sectors earn house rents of US $ 2,000 per month and more per residence *form> the <slang/>expat, including the donor community. Unlike the Knut-Patel transaction described above, this multi-billion shilling activity goes entirely untaxed. *Morever> taxing privately rented property is not being considered as a potential source of revenue by the still on-going Presidential Commission of Taxation.
Between them, the three groups - the ruling class rentiers, the Patel procurers, and the white black marketeer - run much of Tanzania's polity and economy (after a fashion). Without the black market most of the unofficial, technically illegal, economy would grind to a halt, to everybody's disadvantage. All donor and diplomatic missions, both bilateral and muli-lateral, are involved. (Not all smuggle ivory like the Indonesian ambassador, of course!). The black market is institutionalised by official trade policy and the economic self-interest of the major parties involved.
Mwinyi behind free-trade
Trade liberalisation was initiated by President Mwinyi in Zanzibar before he became Union President. The own-forex policy was extended to the mainland in 1984, before the beginning of official "structural adjustment" (1986). The policy signalled the end of the witch-hunt initiated by late Prime Minister Sokoine for political, government, and private sector "economic saboteurs". Liberalisation reversed capital flight and turned Patel and Co from saboteurs into (almost) reputable businessmen.
Originally, a potential "own funds" importer had to prove that he had funds or a relative abroad providing the forex. This was soon dropped as goods started to flood into the country. More than once Nyerere publicly complained about the private importation of consumer goods (especially luxury items) using obviously black money.
Emperor has no clothes
Prosecuting a few unfortunate expatriates on trumped up charges - and with the full cooperation of their bosses - is Mrema's way of dealing with his and the system's current credibility crisis. Any economist will tell you that the only way to get rid of the black market is to devalue the shilling until it reaches its real, i.e. its market value. This option is currently being pushed by the donor community, and you can expect further *devaluations> in the near future. (Expect the black rate to take off again soon though, as the contents of those famous containers start to pour out to fund crop purchases, etc).
In the meantime, we are obliged to witness the continued debasing of the national political currency by the forces of the repressive state apparatus, punishing innocent *nobodys> for banal "crimes" committed on a routine basis along the SU/STG/CCM/TX/CD/TZ axis. As a result of the smuggling fiasco the real "EAFvigogo" may (or may not) have been cut down to size in the eyes of the people, but they are still proving *prety> difficult to move. 
Official fraud in Tanzania
Who looted what
From September 19 to 21, the National Board of Accountants and Auditors of Tanzania (NBAA) and the Tanzania Association of Accountants (TAC) held a joint seminar in Zanzibar on the role of the accountant in controlling fraud and embezzlement.
Speakers included the Managing Director of Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited (TDFL), Mr. H.K. Senkoro, the Auditor General, Mr. M. About and Dar es Salaam University sociology don, Dr. Chachage Sethi Chachage.
In his keynote address, Mr. Senkoro listed "50 cases of fraud and attempted fraud involving more than Shs. 10 million" reported in the Daily News between January 1989 to date. The list  include><+_includes> private individuals and companies, parastatals, co-operative unions, marketing boards, and government departments. <ea_>Chama Cha MapinduziEAF was not included. The total value of the frauds involved was over Shs. 6 billion. The list is attached.
Mr. Senkoro also cited a figure of 1,134 cases of theft in government and parastatals worth nearly Shs. 1.8 billion which were reported to the police during the year 1990/91.
In his paper the Auditor-General Mr. Muhammed Aboud focussed on government fraud. He listed no less than 18 common-fraudulent practices. Official fraud reported to the President and the National Assembly totalled Shs. 2.6 billion in 1986/87, Shs.3.4 billion in 1987/88m and Shs. 4.3 billion in 1988/89.
He mentioned a rising trend in the deliberate practice of delaying the preparation of bank reconciliation statements "with a view to concealing large scale frauds and embezzlement" committed "without any sophistication or high ingenuity" and which "continue for long periods, unchecked and unhampered" (p9).
Cheques and receipt books are routinely printed in duplicate with the same numbers in order to facilitate systematic fraud and embezzlement.
After reviewing the shortcomings of government management, accountants, and internal and external auditors in controlling fraud, Mr. Aboud concluded that: "the situation is alarming, as repeatedly pointed out by me in my audit reports. There is no adequate realisation on the part of management in the ministries and departments of the grave consequences of this increasing trend of frauds.
It has probably passed beyond the administrative level and taken political dimensions. What we need, therefore, is a strong political will to stop this trend and to restore financial discipline in government.
In a paper on fraud in parastatals, Mr. Six Sayore, Director-General of the TAC, noted that the trend towards the formation of probe committees to investigate fraud and embezzlement in parastatals is now the order of the day." (P.5)

W2C009T
Call for government of national unity is timely'
Many think parties have no political direction
Most Dar es Salaam residents, notably academicians, have supported calls for the formation of a government of national unity in Tanzania after the multiparty elections in October.
In a random survey by The Guardian, they said such a "compromise" government was the surest way of sustaining peace and stability that the country has enjoyed since independence over 30 years ago.
They said forming a government of national unity was proof of the patriotism and strength - not weakness - of all involved and was in the national interest, especially considering the peculiar realities of Zanzibar as a case in point.
Professor Haroub Othman of the University of Dar es Salaam said: "Co-opting and incorporating into the government leadership parties and politicians not making it in the elections is not charity but a necessity reflecting a sense of maturity in defence of peace, unity and stability in our country."
The professor was among those interviewed yesterday and on Friday on Thursday's prescription by renowned Tanzanian businessman and media executive Reginald Mengi of a government of national unity as the one befitting the country's present needs and realities.
Mr Mengi made the call at a press conference at which he also refuted rampant reports that he was eyeing either the Presidency or a constituency seat in the Union Parliament, come October.
Mr Mengi had argued that such a government would allow all political parties to contribute to the reconstruction of the country's economy "which is the nation's supreme responsibility".
The need for the maintenance of national unity, regardless of an overwhelming victory by any of the political parties contesting, was also underscored by Acting Chief Justice Robert Kisanga at the just-ended Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Arusha.
"But the winning side and the losing one should aim at a peaceful resolution of any disputes that may arise from the elections and avoid taking any decision the result of which is likely to threaten peace, order and stability," Mr Kisanga said.
With specific reference to Zanzibar, Professor Othman said whichever political party emerges victorious would not have won a landslide.
He said the ruling party - CCM - had unparalleled majority support on Zanzibar Island and the main opposition party there - CUF - was much more in command on Pemba Island. He said that was enough reason for the two rival parties to work for national unity.
Professor Othman, a Zanzibari, said the substantial the most important factor for the nation would be the prevalence of peace and stability - and not which party won and which lost the elections.
"This would make it a must for the formation of a government of national unity if lasting peace and stability are to be sustained," he said.
Professor Mgongo Fimbo, also of the University of Dar es Salaam, saw "a not-too-remote possibility of having the President come from the opposition but with CCM having a clear majority in the House.
He said such an eventuality would call for "a high degree of maturity on the part of the party with majority representation in parliament for stability and peace to prevail both in the House in particular and in the country in general.
Professor Fimbo explained that a government of national unity would become necessary where no contending party gets a big enough victory or where parties get an equal number of votes.
"This is not a likely scenario in Tanzania, given the existing structure of the CCM-led government and the fact that the government has refused to control the state media as a way of ensuring electoral fairness," he added.
The professor decried CCM's monopoly of the state-run media, which he said were far from neutral or impartial and gave the ruling party much greater room to express itself than they gave the opposition combined.
He noted that, as things stood, the likelihood remained that CCM would continue to dominate the country's political life, "thus effectively rendering the possibility of forming a government of national unity a remote dream".
His view was shared by several other interviewees who argued that the opposition in Tanzania was still a political and economic infant which needed time and support to mature.
There were also charges that sections of the opposition had jumped on to the bandwagon of political pluralism "for kicks" or to reap material benefits and cared little what manner of government was in place.
Other people interviewed saw the conference as the only basis for free and fair elections and by extension, the formation of a government acceptable to the majority.
A lecturer at the Institute of Finance Management in Dar es Salaam wondered why the concern among most of those in the opposition appeared to centre more on making it to the State House (as President instead of aiming at winning the parliamentary elections.
The lecturer, who preferred anonymity, said the trend was dangerous to the *oppositon> and would benefit the ruling party, with opposition candidates failing to make it either way.
He urged the opposition to remember that the Presidency was just a single post, "while room from floor to roof in the parliamentary elections is abundant".
On the ongoing declarations by leaders and members from *diifferent> political parties of plans to contest the Presidency, most interviewees were "amazed and stunned" to see each of those standing up declaring a personal agenda, tabling a personal manifesto, and laying on the tables a personal set of policies to implement or follow if he or she wins.
As on of those who spoke to The Guardian put it: "It is as if none of the ten-plus parties eligible to take part in the October elections has no agenda or policy of its own - just patches and patches of disjointed personal mini-manifestos."
He was "surprised" that even the much more experienced CCM was allowing some of its leading members to declare personal manifestos "some of which are diametrically opposed to those of their own party".
CCM reeling from the loss 
Tanzania's ruling party, CCM, is agonising over Friday's departure from its ranks of Mr Augustine Mrema.
It has expressed shock and sadness over the loss, saying he was "one of its most able and well groomed cadres".
A testimony to that effect was given yesterday by the CCM Mass Mobilization and Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kingunge-Ngombale Mwiru, at a press briefing on Mrema's disengagement from the party.
"We are really very sorry to lose him, but CCM respects personal freedom," Mr Ngombale-Mwiru said, adding that Mr Mrema had only exercised his constitutional freedom of association.
He was speaking on behalf of CCM after its Secretary General, Mr. Lawrence Gama, who had fixed the date with the press for the briefing, could not make it. Reports said the SG had lost a son-in-law, Resta Nindi (36), in Iringa last night.
Mr Ngombale-Mwiru denied suggestions that Mr Mrema was a lamb sacrificed over the "Chavdagate scandal". He said the one deserving credit for revealing the 916m/- debt conversion programme (DCP) fund misuse scandal is the Makete Member of Parliament, Mr Tuntemeke Sanga.
Ngombale-Mwiru said at that time Mr. Mrema was Minister for Home affairs, but "when nothing was done about the DCP fund misuse scandal, parliament formed a select parliamentary probe committee."
He said the "coincidence" had led to some people believing that the credit ought to go to Mr Mrema, while others are not sure, adding: "If CCM should commend anyone, it should be parliament - for taking the initiative to probe into the matter."
He said one of the biggest lessons to be learnt from Mr Mrema's resignation from CCM is the various stands the people take "during a transition phase the like of which Tanzania is currently undergoing, and the need to be ready to face the challenges that arise thereafter".
"Transition phases take many forms due to differences in personal goals, ambitions, strategies and style of achieving them," Mr Ngombale-Mwiru said. He stressed that CCM remained "an idea, unity and policy" just as Mr Mrema had found it.
He said Mr Mrema was welcome to re-join CCM upon meeting the party's member-recruitment procedures.
Mr Ngombale-Mwiru stressed the need to abide by collective responsibility and keep official secrets.
He said Mr Mrema was fired for telling parliament he was waiting for a reply to his resignation letter from the President "when actually there was no such letter"
He added that the taking of oaths declaring unqualified readiness to abide by, respect and keep classified information on government affairs was a solemn matter.
The CCM official said the brief of public servants in Tanzania did not include withholding or hiding information on corruption, robberies, thefts and other crimes.
"The government encourages people to reveal such scandals for the good of the nation's development and prosperity," he said, adding: "In fact, CCM would be happy if Mr Mrema named those involved in the various alleged vices, complete with evidence to that effect."
On how CCM and *goverment> would use the former minister, giving his vast experience after having held the deputy premiership and various other senior posts, Mr Ngombale-Mwiru said, for CCM "there is no way". However, he said the government can continue to utilise him "just as it does to all other citizens when and if need arises to do so".
On whether he thought Mr Mrema would be given special treatment and reward for his exemplary contribution to the nation, the CCM publicity secretary said that is "up to the President to decide, and I would not like to speak for the President".
Asked about the effect of Mr Mrema's disengagement from CCM and the likelihood of his supporters following suit, he said joining or leaving the party was a personal decision.
He said it would be wrong to believe Mr Mrema is without followers or supporters, adding: "Others may join him, as expected, but what matters is the degree of preparedness to face up to the challenge - and we are prepared for everything."
Mr Ngombale-Mwiru said he had no information Mr Mrema was being restricted in his movements.
Thank you for the sacrifice - Mandela
South African President Nelson Mandela yesterday paid glowing tribute to Tanzania for the " unparallelled><+_unparalleled>" sacrifice and contribution it made to the liberation of his country in particular and the African continent in general.
He said it was not out of richness or going by the wind of fashion that Tanzania made the sacrifice and contribution but out of its man-centred concern and belief that, unless the whole of Africa was free, the continent's independence would remain incomplete.
President Mandela said this  is><+_in> an address to a public rally at the National Stadium, Dar es Salaam, on the second day of a three-day state visit to Tanzania.
He said: "As far back as 1961, Tanzania became the home of liberation movements from southern Africa. This was not because you were endowed with richness... It was because you recognised the coveted goal, the jewel of liberation, as a right for which you were prepared to sacrifice."
He told the thousands at the rally - and the Tanzanian nation - that his country's independence would have remained a dream were it not for Tanzania's *moraal> and material support.
President Mandela singled out retired president EAFMwalimu Nyerere for special commendation, saying: "He is a great African patriot, whose leadership and wise counsel we South Africans value to this day".
He said, with the independence of South Africa, a new chapter of socio-economic development concern has opened, "a task much more challenging than the struggle against colonialism".
The legendary South African leader called for greater co-operation, peace and unity in mobilising Africa's potential for socio-economic development.
He noted: "If Africa is to ward off the threat of failure, we will have to pursue unity with even greater vigour than before".
He vowed that, although his country could only help to a certain limit, it would play its full role through co-operation in the trade, tourism, transport, energy and other sectors to make the continent a better place to live in.

W2C010T
Mwinyi tells Tanzanians
Financing of education is our obligation
PRESIDENT Mwinyi has urged Tanzanians to sacrifice more for education because the Central Government's ability to assist was limited.
Addressing Dar es Salaam-based Mara region residents yesterday at the end of a 10-kilometre charity walk which he led, the President said people should organise themselves in their areas to raise funds for education.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi said at the Kilimanjaro Hotel in Dar es Salaam that "we should encourage this nationalistic spirit and mobilise resources to build schools for our children".
The walk started at the Kilimanjaro Hotel and went through the Selander Bridge, Bagamoyo road, UWT street, Morogoro road, Sokoine Drive, and back to the hotel. It was organised to raise money for the Mara Education Fund.
The President however stressed that there should be a provision for teachers' houses when raising funds for schools. Teachers could only give good tuition if they were properly accommodated, he added.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi told the walkers that Tanzania's education was still lagging because funding was solely left in the hands of the Government.
He said, for example, one university in Kenya was admitting about 8,000 students per academic year while Tanzania's admission in all its three universities was less than this figure.
President Mwinyi suggested that families could sacrifice at least 10 per cent of their wedding celebrations contributions for education purposes to enhance school funds.
"We should understand that to contribute means to sacrifice for future development," he emphasised. The walk also involved the Coast Region Commissioner Stephen Wassira, Mara Regional Party Secretary Joseph Butiku Chief Secretary Ambassador Paul Rupia and IPP Executive Chairman Reginald Mengi.
Some 11,137,100/- out of the targeted 19m/- in cash and pledges, was raised yesterday.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi's portrait was auctioned yesterday, realising 1.6m/-.
Meanwhile, President Mwinyi is expected to meet 10 residents of Dar es Salaam at the Lumumba CCM sub-head office in Dar es Salaam on Tuesday morning during which he will listen to their grievances.
A statement by Ikulu said five of the residents are men and others are women. "The residents who cannot turn up for the presidential appointment on Tuesday should inform CCM officials at the sub-head office or the Dar es Salaam Regional CCM Chairman," it added.
Women who have been listed to meet the President include EAFNdugu Zamda Songo, S.R. Mohammed, Fatuma Yusuf Saidi, Monica Mussa, Khadija Abdulla and her daughter, Moza Saidi Mohammed.
The men are EAFNdugu Mohamed Mpina, Omary Nasenders, EAFMwalimu Pazi Mnubi, Maulid Mohammed Kimenya and EzekieI Maia. 
Police tell Mwinyi
Dar rounds up 36 suspects in crackdown
THIRTY-SIX suspected criminals have been apprehended by police in Dar es Salaam under a special operation mounted to counter a fresh wave of crime.
Dar es Salaam Regional Police Commander Tryphon Maji told President Mwinyi yesterday that the suspects were being questioned for possible prosecution.
He told EAFNdugu Mwinyi, who was on a tour of police stations, that the operation was being hampered by lack of reliable transport and communication equipment.
EAFNdugu Maji said, for example that, during the special crackdown, his office was forced to hire vehicles at 38,000/- daily as there were no patrol cars.
The RPC told the President that economic hardships, unemployment among youths and youth influx from villages to urban centres were some of the reasons contributing to the wave of crime.
EAFNdugu Maji, who said there were 13,616 incidents of crime reported between January and February this year in the city, also cited drug abuse as another factor behind increasing crime cases. 
According to Inspector General of Police Harun Mahundi 94 Tanzanians are being held in various countries abroad for involvement in drug trafficking.
Meanwhile, EAFNdugu, Maji recommended that street vendors and hawkers should have proper business premises to help police spot criminal suspects.
He said at the moment, many suspected criminals mingled with vendors posing as fellow traders while in fact they were surveying for areas to be invaded at night.
EAFNdugu Maji said measures had already been taken to identify areas with high rate of crime for strengthened patrols.
Earlier, the Director of Criminal investigations EAFNdugu Man, told EAFNdugu Mwinyi that 11,009 serious crimes were reported countrywide between January and last Monday.
He said his office was lacking equipment in the *crakdown> on criminals.
Most of the facilities were outdated and inferior for effective operation.
He also complained of lack of transport and offices.
EAFNdugu Mwinyi visited police flats and quarters, most of which badly required repairs.
The President was informed that most of the police officers were forced to stay outside barracks for lack of housing. This has led to lack of proper control.
And for some of those staying in barracks, they're forced to live with their families in kiosk like structures.
EAFSungusungu beats must be revived, urges Mrema 
DAR ES SALAAM residents have been asked to ignore calls by opposition parties to refuse taking part in night patrols (EAFsungusungu).
Home Affairs Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Augustine Mrema said yesterday that city residents should instead strengthen the patrols for the security of their lives and property.
He said. self-defence had no ideology and was only meant to supplement the work of the Police Force, which had shortage of staff.
EAFNdugu Mrema who was addressing Dar es Salaam police leaders and divisional secretaries at the Korean Cultural Centre, said there was no single country in the world which had been self-sufficient in police officers.
He said during his inspection of EAFsungusungu patrols in the city on Wednesday night, he received assurances from city residents that they would continue to participate in the patrols.
"What I noticed during my visits is that those on patrol lacked close supervision and encouragement from leaders", the law and order Minister said.
He told divisional and district heads to work closely with divisional secretaries in drawing work targets and ensuring that they were achieved.
EAFNdugu Mrema, reminded the leaders to be more responsible in their areas of jurisdiction, saying that anybody failing to meet his obligation should be made accountable.
He told the leaders that it was better to have a vacant position in the Civil Service, rather than having a person who was a burden to the tax payer.
EAFNdugu Mrema announced that he would form a task force to oversee the clean Dar es Salaam campaign.
He said task force would be provided with full time transport to supervise collection of garbage.
During the meeting, Dar es Salaam regional police commander Tryphon Maji said his office was reviewing the rate and pattern of crime in the Region to determine effective ways of fighting it.
He called on city residents employing security guards and domestic servants to keep a proper record of their identities as a precaution against crime.
Meanwhile, EAFNdugu Mrema is expected to leave today for a two-week tour of China and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to study police and fire brigade operations in the two countries.
According to Radio Tanzania Dar es Salaam last night, EAFNdugu Mrema is expected back in the middle of next month. 
Dar - Lagos agree on commission
Tanzania and Nigeria have agreed to establish a joint commission to foster and strengthen economic, scientific and technical co-operation, as a step towards African collective self-reliance.
The accord is part of a 17-point joint communique issued in Dar es Salaam yesterday at the end of a four-day state visit by Nigerian President General Ibrahim Babangida.
The communique said that the establishment of the commission was in line with an earlier agreement on economic, scientific and technical co-operation signed in April 1987.
The communique urged African countries to ratify the agreement on the African Economic Community (AEC) as soon as possible to realise African economic unity and confront the continent's problems.
They pledged to further promote South-South co-operation and sub-regional and regional economic groupings such as the Preferential Trade Area (PTA), the Southern African Development Co-ordination Conference (SADCC) and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).
"Such development would immensely contribute to the realisation of the lofty ideals and objectives of the African Economic Community (AEC)," said the statement.
On South Africa, EAFNdugu Mwinyi and General Babangida reiterated the two countries' position on the maintenance of sanctions, until the Pretoria regime implemented the Harare declaration and the UN consensus declaration on apartheid and its destructive consequences in Africa (1989).
The statement further said that President Mwinyi called for the convention of the OAU ad-hoc committee on South Africa, "to make appropriate recommendations with respect to Africa's consensus position on the issue of sanctions."
The Pretoria regime should take urgent measures to halt township violence, free political prisoners and grant amnesty to all political exiles, as well as abolish remaining apartheid laws, said the communique. 
Motion endorsed
Probe sought on resources
Karatu MP EAFNdugu Patrick Gorro yesterday tabled a private motion in the National Assembly suggesting the formation of a select parliamentary committee to investigate and recommend sustainable use of Tanzania's natural resources.
Moving the motion at the Karimjee Hall in Dar es Salaam, EAFNdugu Qorro suggested the committee should, among other things, probe whether the policies and rules in force were strong enough to safeguard wildlife and the environment.
"The select committee should help to find out the people's views on issues discouraging their efforts to safeguard tourist attractions," the MP said.
Noting that Tanzania had unique riches in wildlife, flora and other natural resources EAFNdugu Qorro, however, cautioned that some important resources would be extinct in the near future due to misuse.
He cited construction of hotels at the Mgorongoro Game Reserve, a project feared to be a threat to the development of natural habitat, as one of the controversial issues that should be investigated.
EAFNdugu Qorro said that Arusha Region MPs had in 1991 expressed their concern to the Government about construction of hotels in Serengeti, Ngorongoro, Manyara and Tarangire game reserves.
They ahd suspected that uncontrolled construction within the game reserves would create environmental problems. He said the Ministry of Tourism and Natural Resources had pledged to carry out environmental impact assessment, but the report of that study was still unknown.
Apart from construction of hotels, charged the MP, some areas of the Manyara Game Reserve were allocated to individuals who are running private tourist camps, allegedly with permission from the ministry.
The MP named the companies authorised by the ministry to develop tourist facilities in the reserved areas as Leisure Holdings, Consolidated and Serena. The companies were said to be operating at Ngorongoro, Serengeti, Manyara and Tarangire.
The proposed committee should further investigate whether the land areas dished out for tourist infrastructure did not belong to the surrounding villages, EAFNdugu Qorro suggested.
The MP also wanted the proposed parliamentary committee to revisit the infamous "Loliondo" contract, since, he said the government had admitted there were "errors in giving the contract to Brigadier Muhammed Al-Ali."
There is need to investigate contracts agreed between the Brigadier and (Loliondo) villages to establish whether the contract was for the benefit of Loliondo people," he added.
EAFNdugu Qorro also suggested that use of Tanzania Indian Ocean coastline for commercial purposes should be investigated. He said there were signs of escalating encroachment. 
Warioba back in the saddle
Ministers to be announced today
PRESIDENT Ali Hassan Mwinyi yesterday reappointed EAFNdugu Joseph Sinde Warioba to the post of Prime Minister and First Vice-President of the United Republic.
A statement from Ikulu in Dar es Salaam yesterday also said that the rest of the Cabinet would be announced at 11 a.m. today. EAFNdugu Mwinyi swore-in EAFNdugu Warioba yesterday afternoon at a short ceremony at Ikulu.
The swearing in ceremony was also witnessed by the Chief Justice, EAFNdugu Francis Nyalali, and the Chief Secretary, EAFNdugu Paul Rupia. Also present were Principal Secretaries who in the wake of the Cabinet resignation on Monday took over ministerial duties as directed by the President.
An earlier statement from Ikulu on Monday had said the President had asked the entire 27-man Cabinet to resign to allow him to select a new Cabinet. The move did not affect Deputy Ministers, several of whom also attended yesterday's ceremony.

