 i'm mrs gayatri murthy   i'm from banglore   i'm miss vidya shetty  i'm from manglore  i teach in st andrews college   i'm a lecturer in english  why don't you tell your figure also  laughter i didn't have   you seem to have the whole biography nobody is going to see me so i don't reply doesn't matter impress them by your voice atleast let them imagine that you've that that  that  that  that will do for the impression   i'm miss lalitha lecturer in english teaching in government b f college tumkur which is in karnataka state  what is it vidya why didn't you marry tell me ? i didn't find a suitable person the right man you mean yes of course  anyway whoever man who is i really pity him  what for ? i think that applies to you  now why didn't pity pity you   a few words  we pity you because you are married and you have two sons   who   and at the same time you are not quite young  we have freedom but you don't have that we we should have to pity you no you don't know the fact married woman were  are most free and safe you know that no we'll come to know later on  that's why that is why i'm  planning to get married this october or next march  so i don't have to plan to get married because i must wait for the suitable person who is for me what do you mean by suitable person ?  one or two words   anyway who is waiting for for a suitable woman that mean if you don't fit his uh uh dimension yes he is waiting  and so also i'm also waiting i hope one or two words  which means which means he is waiting which means somebody is waiting oh you mean these uh men who marry girls like you  i really pity them girls like us then what about you ?  like you   i'm married and well settled with a loving husband   hey that's what we pity we pity  laughter that's your mr whatever  don't you think i'm a very good housewife very good wife very good mother and what not how does your husband manage with you because you are so talkative and so one word   we'll we'll be better judges after we meet your husband  you must come to   you must take us to banglore someday introduce us to your husband as well as your sons  oh   he's all yours   we'll tell him what all you were doing in mysore  laughter  no we don't want him for us  he is least bothered  we don't want him for us but whatever it is we don't mind meeting him  let her meet him no i will tell us tell us something about your family ? oh you tell young girls you tell about your boyfriends  my i don't have a boyfriend nobody falls for me  what is there to what is there to tell about family i don't have any boyfriends same here  nobody falls for us unlike you you are so backward  of course in every possible way  we are backward in that way we are backward uh then your then you must be abnormal see young girls like you must have a boyfriend  we do have boyfriends uhm but not the sort  that you have in your mind  uhm  no i didn't had anything in my mind i too have now why you are this so guilty yes i talk to them i talk to them   why are you guilty lalita ? i meet them i go to restuarant with them and all  that's what i meant  you have a dirty mind i said boyfriend is a boyfriend he is just like a girl friend i don't deny that uhm then why did you say we don't have boyfriends why ? because we don't have boyfriend  you don't have anybody  no not yet then what about your college ? all of them are women  my god  it's a womens college and therefore   such an unromantic situation you're  working in  irony of sort i believe i believe myself you mean to say that when the when the place where men are is a romantic place and we can romance with them   of course of course men are so romantic   i don't like to romance with boy boyfriend  they are so helping i i i'm i'm  so  they are friends  come on come on let's change the topic it's  too boring why are you blushing so much ?  i'm not blushing uhn just  there is something cooking look at that the way she wants to  no but it's so embarassing your topic that's  why i said why should it embarass you unless there is something   those things you know no no no something very change the topic now let's change the topic please it's  just boring then you you one word start then you suggest something else did you buy  no i won't suggest i suggested boyfriend and you people are so offended then why should i suggest  did you buy sarees ? we are not offended but we don't have anything to  say   did you buy something new recently ? i want to buy what new i've been  buying all this  no no  you tell us something about your fifty pairs of ear studs and all that  uh i have a collecton of uh jewel uhm uh what kind of jewels you have ? diamonds of course  of course gold also i wore i don't wear imitation jewel  i have a good collection of sarees  i can't resist them specially cotton  i like dressing up whether it suits me or not that is   definetly it's difference side of  definitely it's laughter  do you like to impress others also  of course she is trying the very best   of course i want to impress everyone  she is trying her very best to do that why not everyone wants to impress somebody isn't it ? no don't generalise  oh of course we are not sort of  you know something is we are not for it  then what do you what is your hobbies and talent not that you have any as i see shut up laughter  i paint i sketch  then i do embossing i do one word work uh what else  ? i don't know  you must be knowing yourself  jack of all master of none  of course so what is much better than doing nothing  and what do you do lali ? i teach i sing uhn i sing sometimes badly then i draw picture  i dance i am a dancer as well  uhm what kind of dance ? bharatnatyam  oh come on don't tell me bharatnatyam is very of course seven years i did it   haven't completed my one word anyway   a few words  you should get that no not yet why ? so you can give one show on the ninteenth because that was in the tenth standard when my parents stop me  don't take up don't talk about these things  then ?  a few words  then what else you want to talk about ? you suggest something you are supposed to be so busy  and so wise  i have been  who said that that you are telling it i don't know why you are telling all these things to me  anyway i accept it very decent  you sure anyway there is one person who has realised my potential  laughter  but we don't think she has such a potential know she is witty no doubt but at times over witty  so and what it is got to do with you ? you must be thanked  i'm one word  uh that come on that is the point and then we are talkative  of me or gayatri gayatri because i like her  she is so frankly she speaks to she is very candid she does not keep anything in her mind ah ah yes she comes out with ideas what ideas ? you say ideas like what you support life this is but life na  she told yeah i have taught even at that age she has got  yeah  she is not very old  please don't make her so old i know why she keeps telling me old she is old  come on  can't make out that  how ? but she how tries to be look young   how  she is young at heart that's what no i don't try to look younger than my age then ? do i vidya ? no way uhm why i should look uhm  i don't have to  then what what do you mean that i tried to look young  putting on all these bindis matching it   that is i like dressing up i told you at the beginning only i like dressing nicely neatly and uh heel chappals and all that you wear   no wait don't you wear heel chappals  why not   i'm not how sad don't say that  do you mean to say that when you get old you'll  change all your dresses yes definitely and dressing so smartly like this   yes definetly  never if you have a good face for everything i don't  think   of course you have  even if you are eighty years old you will be smart  haven't you seen even eighty years old woman how smart they will be  one or two words  right  then what else ? where did you do your schooling you said ? banglore  everything banglore only  k g to  of course born and and your husband ? banglore he is basically from banglore  you speak telugu  so what ? how could you ? speak telugu and being in banglore  we speak telugu  your parents were also in banglore  my mother is been from banglore uhm  my father is from uh nearby banglore  uhn  you have had a one word chintamani chintamani no that i have been to that place many times my sister was working there for sometime in canara bank  she was there for one and a half year  stayed there for some month  and you said you were you were in bombay no ? how was bombay ? i did my schooling in bombay  you like bombay or manglore ?  one or two words my college one or two words in bombay  now i have got used to this life  this slow life  uhn that way i think many place is better than bombay and i did my college here  and my post graduation here  and now i'm working in one word  know i keep going to bombay every now and then uhn ah you have friends there ? no my dads is there he has got business our business is there  how about your friends ?  i have many friends in manglore as well as in bombay  you have many friends in manglore  girlfriend  girlfriend let me specify that  how uninteresting ? what is uninteresting in that  then what ? a young girl like your age having only girlfriend i just  can't imagine  may be may be  may be i should have been your daughter  my parents won't accept that  then i should allow having offer you even to study college a girl like you with uh  without boyfriend  with uh contrast  why anyway i told you you can be my daughter-in-law no  i refuse that offer laughter this is the second time you have offered   you don't you don't know what you are missing and this is the second time i have refused  declined the offer  you don't know what you are missing tell me did you go anywhere in this summer ? how did you spent your summer time ? summer i don't know how it passed  i just went to madras for a short visit  i told you know we had our lion's conference  what for ? and by well where is the time as soon as the exams were over evaluation and then uh i just finished evaluation and came here  i didn't go anywhere no  just i kill the time in summer reading doing nothing evaluation you have done ? usually you got i went for vacation and i stayed in banglore for sixteen days and i came back home 