good morning children  today we are going to do the lesson the missing mail   what is the name of the lesson ?  the missing mail   the missing mail  can you understand anything about the title of the story ? missing mail  what do you understand by that ? what is missing mail ? mail means what ? yes ? train alright  what is the other meaning of mail ? yes ?  inaudible  letter very good  mail you know mail saying they say which carries the mail van and all that which carries letters to the the station so here the missing mail means the letter that has not been delivered  are you able to follow this ? the letter that has not been delivered  and now you tell me the personalities of the post man is going to play a part isn't it ? if the post man is very rude he doesn't listen to you he throws your letters at that time how do you feel about him ? he is a bit rude impolite doesn't talk to you nicely  and the other one who talks to you in a very nice manner do you find any difference between these two persons ? ah devyani can you tell ? teacher we can't with a person who is not polite and uh yes yes  if the person is very courteous polite then we feel like talking to him  if he is rather very rude and arrogant that time you don't feel like talking to the person  similarly when you go to a doctor a doctor who listens to your suffering your troubles and all that with a patient hearing he gives you and he talks to you in a very nice manner half of your troubles are over isn't it ? and suppose a doctor is there he talks to you in a very bad manner  i mean he doesn't talk to you much he doesn't inquire much about your suffering and all that how do you feel ? which doctor are you going to visit frequently ? the one who is going to talk to you in a very nice manner  listens to you and pays attention to what is  what are your problems and he tries to find a solution to that  so here in the present lesson present story we are going to come across thanappa the postman of the village and let us see  how he deals with the people there how much he has i mean he has uh he has identified himself with the people living in this village each and everyone he knows by their names and he identifies himself with their troubles sufferings and everything and gives them advice when it is required  now the story goes like this  all of you look into your book the teacher reads  though his beat covered vinayak mudali street and it's  four parallel roads it took him nearly six hours before he finished his round and returned to the head office in market road to deliver accounts  he allowed himself to get mixed up with the fortunes of the persons to whom he was carrying letters  at number thirteen kabir street lived the man who had come halfway up the road to ask for a letter for so many years now thanappa had been had seen him as a youngster and had watched him day by day greying on the pyol  sitting there and hoping for a big prize to come his way  through solving crossword puzzles   no prize yet he announced to him everyday   but don't be disheartened   your interest has been delayed this month somehow  he said to another   your son at hyderabad has written again madam how many children has he now ? the teacher explains  could you follow a little bit of this postman named thanappa  ? now let us see though his beat covered vinayak mudali street the name of the street in which he had to deliver the letters to the various people  so here it took him nearly six hours only one street   living the people living there he had to deliver the letters but how many hours did it take for him ?  six hours   six hours to deliver the letters  can you tell me what he does in those six hours ? why so much time he is taking ? why does he take so much time ? why ? what is the matter with him he can just throw the letter and come back but what does he do while delivering the letters ? dhanya ? teacher he a few words  yes he inquires about their welfare he ask them about their problems and all that and he tries to find a solution to their  problems   that's why the work which is to be finished within one hour is taking him six hours to complete  so here he allowed himself to get mixed up with the fortunes of the persons  what do you understand by the phrase get mixed up with ?  what's the meaning of this phrase ? kanchan can you tell the meaning ?  a few words  no what does he do ? means uh what meaning are you getting by that ? with the fortunes of the persons to whom he was carrying letters  what do you mean by that ? he mixed up with  he's very what is it ? he mixed up with the villagers means he has got intimate contact with them  he knows very well what are the problems and that's  why if anybody is hoping for a money order or anybody is  wants a prize or anybody anybody wants a suitable match for his daughter like that he knows each and everyone's problems and he identifies himself with all their uh whatever they want with all all their things is identifying and that's why the writer says that  he mixed up with the fortunes of the people  and now the particular man whom he is talking now is about living in thirteen kabir street and this man thanappa had been seeing right as a child  he knew him and this man today is an old man who is now having a marriageable age daughter who is to get married and now this man is eagerly trying for a match to his daughter  so here he says the man was sitting on a pyol   pyol means a carridor in front of the house  and this man is a little bit inactive you can say throughout the day he will be sitting there and trying to solve the crossword puzzle  what is a crossword puzzle ? have you seen it ? do you ever tried to solve it ? you get in sunday magazines and all that magazine sections you are having everyday in the hindustan times and  statesman in the last page you have it isn't it ? so this man is very busy trying to solve it but up till now he was not successful and he could not get a prize  what does thanappa say to him ? he says no prize yet  mallika ? that way when he passes the postman passes through that way  the man eagerly looks up at him why ? because he is expecting a prize  he wishes that thanappa should intimate him that he had won the crossword puzzle for that week or month and he is going to get a prize  but thanappa says no prize yet   you haven't won a prize  but don't be disheartened  disheartened means don't be disappointed  yes student name  disappointed yes very good  disheartened means don't lose heart don't lose courage have the will power try try like that and one day you are going to be successful   your interest has been delayed this month somehow  he said to another  now another first he has gone to another house to deliver a letter  and there the man is expecting some interest and he consoles him that his interest has been delayed a little bit but it is going to be added to the and soon he is going to receive it  and then to the third one he says your son at hyderabad has written again madam how many children has he now  ? he says to another lady your son has written a letter from hyderabad and now he enquires about your welfare   the teacher reads   i did not know that you had applied for this  madras job you haven't cared to tell me! it doesn't matter  when i bring you your appointment order you must feed  feed me with coconut payasam   the teacher explains  and now here is another person who had applied for an interview  he informed him that he had got selected and he has got the appointment order to him and he says you have to give me feast  because i've brought good news for you  so like that each and every person very intimately he knows what are their problems and he finds the solutions and through the letters which he is delivering he expects that they are getting someting good  something good is going to happen to them the teacher reads  and at each of their places he stops for nearly half an hour especially if anyone received money order he just settle down quite nicely with his bags and bundles spread about him and would not rise till he gathered an idea of how and where every  rupee was going the teacher explains  you see the concern of this postman  he talks to the person if a person gets a money order he does not quickly deliver the money and get it signed the form  and leave the place  he would sit down along with his bag and baggage he will talk to the person enquires him about the expenditure which is going to do with that money and he fears that ensures that each  rupee is going to be spent in a fruitful way  it is not being wasted  are you able to follow this point all of you ? how intimately how much personal interest he is taking in the affairs of each and everyone and how much he is concerned about the expenditure of that person the way how he is going to spend the money  which he had delivered just now through money order  whether it is being done the expenditure in a fruitful manner  or it is going to be a waste that he finds out from that person  and gets satisfaction only when he sees that it is spent in the right manner the teacher reads  if it was a hot day he sometimes asked for a tumbler of buttermilk the teacher explains  when it is very hot that time he would ask for a glass of buttermilk the teacher reads and sat down to enjoy it  everybody liked him on his beat  he was a part and parcel of their existence their hopes  aspirations and activities the teacher explains  so the people living in that particular village this postman thanappa is just like a member of their family  are you able to understand ? why ? because unlike the other postman of today nowadays what do you find a very rude they don't bother about what you have received  whether it is a bad news or good news nobody bothers about it but here he would go and sit with them talk with them  listen to their problems and assured them and give them advice  regarding what is to be done  so what type of a postman is thanappa ? a very caring affectionate kind polite type of man shall i continue sir ? addressed to someone who is recording the teacher's lesson  now look here the teacher reads  of all his contacts the one with which he was most intimately bound up was number ten vinayak mudali street  ramanujam was a senior clerk in the revenue division office  and thanappa had carried letters to that address for over a generation now the teacher explains  and now the pa particular  person who is going to be the hero of our story is mr ramanujam where is he working ? he is working as clerk he is working  kanchan ? he is working as senior clerk yes he is a senior clerk in the revenue office  sit down please  and now the teacher reads  his earliest association with ramanujam was years and years ago   ramanujam's wife was away in the village  a card arrived for ramanujam  thanappa as was his custom glanced to it at the sorting table itself and the moment he was ready to start out went straight to vinayak mudali street though in the ordinary course  over hundred and fifty addresses preceded it  he went straight to ramanujam's house knocked on the door and shouted postman sir postman  when ramanujam opened it he said give me a handful of sugar before i give you this card  happy father ! after all these years of prayers ! don't complain that it is a daughter  daughters are god's gifts you know ... kamakshi - lovely name ! the teacher explains  and now we find he is associating himself with the  happiness of ramanujam  ramanujam is blessed with a daughter and thanappa had come to deliver the news that he has become a father  a daughter has been born to him and he assured him that   dau daughter is born so he should not feel sad because according to the our hindu custom people are not happy when a girl is born in the family because all that trouble to get her married the large sum of dowry that is to be paid  dowry you know what is it ? 