well we will be discussing today the lesson that i have already started do you know the lesson that i am going to discuss to  today  malefactor malefactor malefactor that's right that's right and i do hope that by now all of you might have read the lesson  and understood the contents of it too  right ? the first question that we are going to raise today for discussion  is that do you justify the title of the story ? do you justify the title of the story ? i mean you ? would you ?  what's your opinion ? sir the chapter raise the sir denis is not not   actually actually a criminal criminal but uh like  he uh does the he does uh he opens the screw unknowingly right he doesn't know that it is really a crime  actually he does it unknowingly  so what you mean that he is not a criminal one ? no he isn't right  yes please what do you have to say ? that the title malefactor doesn'tjustify the uh  doesn't justify on denis because he is not a criminal and he doesn't uh commit the act knowingly he just uh does it unknowingly and tells the judge also that he had done and doesn't hide anything like a a professional criminal okay if we turn the pages of our text we will find that he knows he does know that unscrewing of the nuts may lead to the rail accident  if you see the line you will find he confesses that  we know that it may lead to the train accident that's why we don't unscrew all the nuts we unscrew only few  sir he doesn't say that we know that accident will occur as a result so he says that we know that the nut holds the railway track right sir he says that nuts cannot cause an accident no not that one but he does he does know that if we unscrew all the nuts  it may lead to train accident causing the loss of life and property  he does know  what are the other clues by that you can justify the title ? you can't say that here whether he is a criminal or not  noise  sir first thing he said that he was a very poor man yes it was when that he said you can't find lead or nail  uh uh on the street or you have to buy that ah so he was  a very poor man so he drills hole into pluck out nut from the track  ah  right  perhaps you would mean to say that while judging him as a criminal we must see his situation too  the circumstances he is pressed by  we find that he is such a poor man that he is not in a position to buy the other thing to use as sinker as he is pleading again and again that i do it i did unscrew the nuts only to  use them as sinkers  perhaps his financial condition is not so that he may buy the  other thing or substitute of the nut  isn't so ? anything else that you have to say ? yes ? noise  anything ? you wanted to tell something ? no  then what else you have to say ? is there any other clue whereby you can prove that he is not a criminal ? the one thing that you have clarified is that it is the  demand of the circumstances or he is pressed by the circumstances that's  why he unscrewed the nuts anything else ? the criminal was not an educated  he is not an educated one educated man and even he doesn't know anything about the  track anything that it can cause accident by plucking out of the lines right  may be accepted  sir lot of whole society are unscrewing the nut but  but an individual cannot be termed say that he has unscrewed the nut  so rules of the society is also there  so  right whole society means the gentry  there is not only the denis alone  when but other people of the community are also doing the same thing  sir he doesn't hide the name of anyone but he tells two or three names more to the judge right this shows that he was not a criminal  but one thing is there suppose if the majority of the people are doing the same thing you how can you say that  it's not a crime ? can you ? if majority of the people do the same work does it means uh file any logic or thereby can you say that yes it is not a crime because the large number of people are doing so  so how can we accept this one that because not only denis but other fellows are also doing  other members of the community are also doing that's why  it's not a very serious crime  it is a  sir it is a crime  it is a ? crime  if it is a crime then you might be justifying the punishment too given to him yes sir  denis does qualify as a criminal with one more reason because  the law says that if the committer does the crime knowingly and so he did it do it knowingly  right it was stated in the law panel code one zero eight  means the gravity of the punishment should also take care of whether something is done knowingly  what is the intention of the person doing a particular offence  committing a crime intention of the mind should also be uh taken care of  so was there any intention like that one ? no  was there any bad intention ? no sir no  so we can say if there was no any bad intention like rail accident or other things like then he must not be given that much severe punishment  he should not be levelled as a criminal  why ? because he did it without knowing  so if we sum up the things we can say first of all that it is the circumstances it is his financial condition that made him to do commit the crime  second thing is that his intention is not bad he is doing it unknowingly  there is no any bad intention of causing the rail accident  causing the loss of life and property no intention anything else ? on the ground of that you can say that he doesn't deserve that much severe punishment noise  is there any more points ? can you recollect ? yes can you recollect ? noise  can you ? no  no  anybody else in the class who has any more points  thereby who can say that the title of the story malefactor is not appropriate one ? yes ? the society around him made the circumstances that they made him to do that  but the role and role and of the society  that is the ? the whole world of the crime world the they  depend on society around us  how the society is responsible ? because he says that they the wise men and the uh men of the village do the same work  right  it means that from the childhood he is made to do the same thing  now that we have already taken that is more number of the people do the same thing that is an offence we cannot say that it is not an offence  sit down please sit down  yes anything else ? noise  so in your view the title of the story is not appropriate one  ? no sir can you think of can you substitute any other appropriate title to the story ? if this one is not appropriate can we give any appropriate title to the story ? can you think of any new title to the story ? sir poverty is great crime  poverty create crime  poverty ? create crime  poverty creates crime and why only poverty ignorance is also with that or both are coincided very often ? sir sir innocent criminal  innocent criminal  then the title suggested is suggested one is innocent criminal  what is your re reaction to it ? sir criminal criminal cannot be called innocent no  the criminal cannot be called called  innocent then he is a criminal sir but sir he is a  then  sir but sir he is innocent  sir he is little bit innocent  yes sit down  okay that a criminal cannot be but you know that one of the merit of the title is to create interest in the story too  if it is an innocent criminal then perhaps you will be interested to learn that how an innocent man became a criminal  it may create some interest too  can you think of similar title ? on the same line can you find any better one ? okay if not according to you what type of punishment does he deserve ? noises  in case   a few words  in case he is not a criminal one but he has done something wrong you know  knowingly unknowingly whatever is there but he has done something wrong and he has been caught red handed too  what type of punishment would you like to accord to him ? yes ? he has to reveal the plan causing the liability that  that they are but not the individual particular in society to be taught as has given me a one word to seek a as if they had deliberately done then a few words noise   then  then one thing perhaps you want to say that we will take this one as a feedback and educate the society tell the people that this is something very wrong they must not do  he must be instructed like that one and should be released or any other punishment ? he should be  yes please ? he should be let off with a warning or at the most he should be imprison for one or two months  he should be given either the warning or ? imprisonment at the most for one or two months not too much  right  not more than one or two months  anything else ? vishal ? you know the what is the target what is the aim of the punishment ? just to bring improvement and check the further crime  just to bring the improvement as well as to check the further crime too  so one is that he should be given either a very light punishment one or two months imprisonment with some warning another one is suggesting that the fellow should be left  and government or the agency should take it as a feedback and tell or educate the other people regarding the offence that they should not do it  right ? they should be told they should be uh educated that it is something wrong very wrong it may lead to severe punishment and they should not do  right mass awakening anything else ? anything else in the capacity of a magistrate that you would like to ? sir the presence of that many people in the village as petty according to famous man also do uh make that uh net so he wants more nut in that so it's mass awareness is needed to educate all the village and warn them that they had to do no more plucking of the nut from track site right right i do agree  i do agree with you that such an ingnorant man such a  simple honest man should not be given a very severe punishment atleast one or two chances must be given to him to improve himself and the other members of the community should also be  shown that this is something punishable and they must leave it  i think that such honest fellows if given the chance they will improve they will leave such crimes  they will realise the gravity of the crime  understood ? you know till the very end denis doesn't understand that what for he is being sent to prison  till the very end he doesn't understand that what for he is being sent to the prison  right ? why ? he is punished he is uh given a very severe punishment  but till the very end he doesn't know that what is his crime  he doesn't know he couldn't understand it why ? or if i repeat the question like that one what are the crimes in his eyes ? according to him what are the crimes ? he thinks that  he thinks that unscrewing a nut from the rail track is not a crime at all  then what are the crimes in his eyes ? yes ? that his brother was not paying the tax  he thinks that  his brother was not paying the tax and he is being sent to for his brother's crime  right  he thinks that those who fight they must be punished and he hasn't  fought with anyone that's why he doesn't deserve  right  yes ? denis uh says stealing stealing is punishable  so don't you think that he has stolen a nut ?  noise  don't you think ?  noise  he has done unknowingly  he did it unknowingly  right  he is not stealing the tax  he not stealing tax  accha one who doesn't pay the taxes he deserves the punishment  right ? sir coming for judgement what ? sir there is one thing that he never a few words  please sit down  yes ? so i think stealing non-payment of the taxes and he thinks that he has not stolen anything  he has not fought with anyone and he has paid his taxes so he doesn't deserve the punishment punishment understood ?  that's why till the very end he couldn't convince himself  that he is a criminal  though he was found criminal in the eyes of the law but he couldn't convince himself that he is a criminal  okay  so is there any confusion regarding the story ?  punishment  no sir  or is there any other questions that you've got in your mind ? anyone any sort of the questions or doubts ? 