 murli shankar trupti  your other matter is tomorrow   murli son of shankar trupti  thirty years vegetable vendor pawanpada muland east bombay on twenty-one four eighty-three on twenty first april april nineteen eighty-three i was selling vegetable at mulund east   west one word at mulund west bombay   april   west one word  you know one person by name rajan prabha and also   one perso another person by name misal  ? i know ranjan ranjan  prabha and misal  how uh what was the occupation of rajan at that time vegetable and where ?  rajan was also selling vegetable  opposite my shop  on twenty-one four eighty-three cough what time did you close your business ? on twenty first april nineteen eighty-three at about ten fifteen pm i closed my shop  after closing the shop where did you go ? after closing my shop i went to mulund east to visit my vada pau stall   para paragraph  paragraph   aata at mulund east is there any  building by name kantilya sadan ? i know that a building that a building  kantilya sadan is situated at mulund east  now when you went to mulund east who were there along with you ? i was accompanied by rajan coma  misal p w one into bracket p w one coma  chimny and popat while going to mulund east   p w one  now on twenty-one four eighty-three at about eleven pm  where were you ? interruption  uh did you go near  i don't remember he says i do not remember where i was at about eleven o'clock  i do not recollect where i was at eleven pm on that day  alright where was rajan and misal at that time ? i do not i do not remember  yeah i do not remember i do not also remember  where rajan and where were they are  where they were interruption where were rajan and misal  where were where w h e r e w e r e rajan and  misal misal at that   where were   rajan and misal  what was popat an chimny doing ?  popat and chimny were in a room  at kantilya sadan for inquiring about tili tili  two words ?  popat and chimny went to kantput  kantilya at that time who was there along with him  ? at that time my friend coma rajan and  misal into bracket p w one were standing near  kantilya sadan  now is there a flour mill by sulochana   by name sulochana flour mill ? there is a flour mill by sulochana known as sulochana flour mill on the ground floor of kantilya sadan  at that time was the flour mill open or closed ? at that time that flour mill was opened  now did rajan and misal go near this flour mill ?  rajan and misal into bracket p w one  went near that flour mill for urinate  now did you notice any other pers people or persons near that flour mill apart from this ? four to five persons were sitting in front of  flour in front of it's door  where was he at that time ? at that time i was standing opposite to said four five person  now what happened ? the said four five persons person and went  towards rajan and misal  yeah  they asked rajan and misal as to why they were urining there  yeah  they asked rajan and misal as to why they were there was a quarrel  thereafter the quarrel started between  rajan and misal and the said four five person said four five person started assaulting rajan and misal  with stick and knife  now with what was rajan first assaulted ? as i do not   nahi nahi nai he is saying   rajan  was first assaulted   rajan was first assaulted  with a knife like  with a knife like  weapon  with a knife like weapon  with a weapon like knife  uhm with a weapon like cough rajan was first assaulted with a weapon like knife  now at that time rajan and misal  were urinating  were apart from these two were were there or was there any other person or persons ? no one was there alright i i do not remember as to whether there was anybody  urinating except that rajan and misal  now did rajan suffer or receive any injuries ?  rajan has sustained injuries to his hand uh was he given any medical attention ? he took him to  i took rajan to mulund police station  so ? thereafter therafter he was taken to hospital for treatment now police recorded your statement on that date ?  that's alright alright  carry uhn i do not recollect as to whether my statement was recorded on that night by the police  next day   one word  my statement was recorded on the next day by the police it was read over to you it was correctly recorded ? it was correctly recorded  it was read over and explain to me by the police  now you've stated that there were four or  fi five persons near the flour mill  and those persons assaulted rajan  now are those persons present in the court ? some of them are ah some  yes  yes who are they ?  interruption  alright he has identified  ahn accuse number one and three  into bracket bracket witness points to accuse number one and three who are sitting in the dock of the court  text is over  accuse number one and three are the persons who were  assaulting rajan  now  accuse number  one and three  one and three are the persons  now after twenty twenty second april eighty-three  were you again called to the police station mulund police station ?  interruption  but what for what purpose ? i was called again called by mulund police  after a few words in marathi for identification  now in in that uh during that ident did you uh uh identi whom did you identify ?  interruption  as as  at that time i identified accused number one and three as assailant of rajan  sir at this stage i'm seeking permission to contradict this witness without declaring him hostile under section one sixty-two to cross examine this witness  you said that you do not remember whether uh some other person or persons were there urinating at that time  did it did it happen so that one another unknown person aged about forty-five years was also urinating nearby by the side of the said wall ? i do not remember  i i do not remember that at that time a person an unknown person  statement kada  aged about forty-five years was urinating by the side of the wall  it is so recorded in your statement can you assign the reason  as whether it happened or not   he says i do not recollect then why such a uhn  now tell me  it is so re   interruption  i cannot remember  he is saying that i can't uh no that has been recorded i want he says that there has been lapse of time  no no what i want is that why such a statement is there in uh why such a sentence is there in the statement  answer i can't deny  that is already there   i'm not i'm disputing that fact he says i can't assign any reason why is it so recorded  alright take it i can not assign i can not assign any reason as to why  it is so recorded  it is so recorded in my statement  that uh that what did it happen that while the assailants were assaulting rajan at that time one unknown person was  al who intervened was also assaulted ? i do not know  i do not recollect as to whether it did happen  that the said unknown person intervened  between rajan and them in marathi   haan  between rajan and said four five persons  and he was also assaulted by the same four five person  i put it to you that the three uh the three persons mentioned that uh assailants also assaulted that unknown person  i put it to you kai sangaicha tumhala   whether it is true or false ?  kai sangaicha tumhala  i do not recollect  is it true or is it false ?  in marathi  let him say it is not true i will take my action whatever i want to take  don't suggest the words to the witness   a few words   i'm not trying to pressurise the witness  i am merely asking my question  the said unknown person might have assaulted  might have been assaulted  might have been assaulted by that those said four those four five person  now after that identification was his statement recorded ? i don't recollect  ahn alright  i do not recollect as to whether my further statement was recorded by the police  now did it happen that you identified accused number two also in that parade ? it did happen that i had identified accused number two in the said identification parade  as what did you identify him as ?  interruption  uh as ? as one of the assailant of rajan  did it happen that you also identified all the three persons as assailants of the unknown person ? he did not  it did not happen that i had identified  accused number one and three as the person who assaulted   interruption  the said unknown person  patil show him this person ot   other unknown person assaulted and the other unknown person  who had assaulted rajan and the other unknown person why is it so recorded ?  in marathi  it is recorded  it is his statement because it happened  i can not assign any reason as to why   in marathi  so recorded in my further statement  uh that portion tumhi maga unknown person  taken record his mark  yes no direct evidence  circumstantial evidence and even the position is that to  the witness is who had in fact identified the dead body they are also not available because of the riots  during the riots they left this place and are not available whatever is the evidence yes sir in fact we are beating a dead horse  uhn in fact we we are beating a dead horse recording broken   vasant son of jaiprakash shekhar   yes proceed  thirty-eight years   interruption  so that they are getting the fact  p h i two words   two words  marol police station  marol police camp cabin number three thirty room sixteen andheri east bombay  now cough mr shekhar in the month of april nineteen ninety you were attached to panthnagar police station as ? in the month of april nineteen ninety you were attached to  panthnagar police station as ? sub-inspector  as sub-inspector  in the month of april nineteen ninety i was attached to panthnagar police station as p s i  now on seventeenth april nineteen ninety you were on duty  what were your duty hours ? on seventeenth on seventeenth april nineteen ninety i was on station out duty from eight am to six pm  alright when you were on duty at about did you receive a telephone message a telephone call at about one o'clock  ? on that day at about one pm  from an unknown person  i received a telephone call from an unknown person regarding ? he informed me that a dead body was lying in creek in marathi  in the marshy marshy in the marshy land marshy  accha in the marshy land behind  ramabai's behind transit camp  ramabai camp ramabai transit camp  behind transit camp at ramabai colony at ramabai colony now after receiving this telephone message you along with your staff went to scene of offe or to the place where where you were informed about it ? i thereafter visited  the spot  the spot along with my staff  now when you went to the spot what did you find ? i noticed that a thirty-five years old  male body with naked condition was lying there  now on seeing the dead body what did you do ? i removed the said dead body with the help of people  people and my staff now on the marshy land  now  now were there were there any clothes around the dead body ?  lungi was tied round the neck  i also noticed that a lungi was tied around his neck and his face was covered  with a mosquito net  with a mosquito net  now did you notice any other injury on the dead body ? uh   yo on did you recall the two panchas  and took that body in your cust charge  i thereafter called two panchas  and in the two panchas and in their presence  took the charge of the said dead body  now what was the colour of the lungi ? green colour  green colour  the colour of the lungi was green now you will be able to identify that lungi  if shown to you ?  i'll be able to identify   in marathi  the said lungi if shown to me now  you will also be able to identify that mosquito net if shown to you  i will also be able to identify the said mosquito net if shown to me now  sir at this stage i'm producing a box  which is sealed it may be opened   interruption  so there is that uh lungi and that uh  mosquito net in that  i will take the other part and that part will be alright now officer when you prepared the panchnama  or while you were preparing the panchnama did you come to know that whose dead body it was ?  in marathi  he identified the dead body one person by name  one person  one person identified the as  nai nai nai one person by name kulfi jamadar   in marathi   haan he identified the dead body  one   kulfi jamadar  one kulfi jamadar  one person by name kulfi jamadar   in marathi  uhn he identified the dead body  yeah te one person kara  one kulfi jamadar  one kulfi jamadar one kulfi jamadar   identified the dead body  as to be as one word  as to be chari jahagirdar  chari jahagirdar body of chari jahagirdar  now therafter your statement was recorded at the police station 