good morning   yes good morning  nancy speaking  oh   how're you ? fine thank you  are you ready now ? ready ? yes ready for what breakfast ? ah ready for what laughter  did i disturb you i don't   i haven't mean has my bath yet when rama and ranu are disturbing laughs or chatting you know yeah what did you buy there ? where ? ah  where ? but you did not go with her no no no no  okay what's your programme today ? uh you mean going to the uh to the cave   yeah whether we're  no i was thinking it's a neat idea ah ha  there to pack up and put the bag in in uh chanda's room   accha as she staying on   yeah   ah ha   accha  okay chanda   instead of carrying it to and fro is is chanda going to stay back ? yeah yeah she should she must stay back for how many days ? i don't know i think one day uhm sunday  uhm  okay  uhm uh yeah i wanted to just confirm about uhm  the feed back form which you received yesterday  uhm  yes  yeah have you filled it up ? of course not laughs  not yet   you're suppose to do it before lunch because  they'll not give you lunch unless laughs  okay okay so we've to sit in the groups and do it yeah yeah that will be done i tried to contact with mrs shankar but i  don't know there is something wrong with the telephone   oh  so i thought let me just talk to yeah i'm  feeling bored in the room  not to worry   ah ha ha   oh   yeah   laughs  see you want to talk to rama ? uh no rama rama doing ? ah she is more or less you know organized  little more organized than i'm   laughs  okay so mm mm you're uh after the session is over  are you going uh to that place i mean just uh well from you have come or you want to have a round here no no no i'm not going anywhere  well shastri and i were planning ah we'll  keep the bags here ah so that from the seminar then  we'll just come back okay pick up our bags   okay and then you know move to the airport  ah   ah   okay   okay  okay  would you like to speak to dr shastri now ? okay  yeah he's staying very much here ah okay  ah ha okay  yeah i would like to do some research work when i go back   ah ha as a follower programme i've already discussed with them ah yesterday ah ha ha  she has given me some hints  so i thought let me talk to as a resource person we have come from different universities ah ha ha and i'll get a good hint here  ah ha   ah   ah ha ha   i see   ah ha ha  i see so that's how shastri and you got together ?  that's how  ah yes laughter  for research purposes uhn laughter  then uh uh  so what do you suggest now ? uh for research ? yeah no consider me as your student  see after all i've to be yeah somewhere in  some university   yeah   well i don't i don't know what rama has talked to you yeah rama has talked to me about l t and all that uhm uhm  so ? okay i don't want to bore you at the moment because our time  your time is precious laughter  yes can you just ask me a question where i can answer  i can get the time to answer your question just for two minutes uhm on research you mean  no anything  i can't think of anything okay shopping ? shopping uhn shopping   uhn  shopping ? yes uh  what about shopping ? would you like to buy something from the cannaught circle ? oh no no no no just palika bazar janpath and all that no is shastri into shopping ? no he's not he says that you all ladies go and do something do a little bit of shop that will  relieve you off the great tension  uhm   uhm uhm  well rama actually may want to pick up some toy for her  ah child  ah   that's all  yeah i think so  okay then do you want okay fine  do you want me to buy anything for you ? this is i'm going around i'm staying in delhi for few days more oh you are here i see i see so actually i'm two words i know like one more day you can stay over here because i don't think the british council  expects everybody has got up a flight lined up immediately after the seminar yes you know i don't think they expect that no yeah most of the people are doing the same thing because their train is tommorow yes exactly  so if you can stay on with chanda is here so you can you know be here for okay another day  okay  okay okay uhn  yeah thank you dr shastri is going to tell you what is it that  nancy speaking good morning nancy how are you ? okay  and uh what are you doing now ? uh just thought i'll get ready you are ready already ? uh i'm already ready ahn what have you done about the shopping and other programme actually uh nothing  uh really ah  now have you decided to stay back here for a day or two  ?  haan that i'll stay till monday  here ?  haan not in this uh  uh then ? tommorow i'll go in the morning right  to uh my those people who came my summit was one word  okay uh so if you really want to do little bit of shopping yes what would you like to buy from janpath  or from cannaught circle ? uh i can go with you uh no i just i would like to know i will tell my programme when we meet in the british council uh actually nothing really particular just something for  my daughters   no what's  no what's your choice ? unless i see i can't say why ? uhn  unless i see i really can't say  now is that for instance my i told you yesterday i what i  it was in my mind when i came through jammu ah you one word   one word  no actually one thing we can do ah after lunch we can go   ah  ah immediately after lunch we can go  haan haan  yes then  tell me  which is on spot you should you want that on spot it should be on spot shopping yeah ahn so this one word should not be expected like ahn  okay you want to take uh certain things for your daughter yeah  and and to whom ? and of course i don't know whether for my son-in-law anything is available or not but  okay  have you filled up the form and  i've not filled up yet laughter  yeah yeah you know what i was doing you know all my sarees  one word  yesterday i just   you've been asleep  no i i could i was tired i was feeling a little but tired then i  uh i was feeling a little i remember ate too much i don't know what a little tummy was little okay problem  okay  fine  i'll i'll just all my  sarees were everywhere okay  so i packed all those  okay  that is what uh are you yeah are you coming to canteen's  premises now ? at what time ?  i'll go a little say fifteen minutes   twenty minutes later  okay eight  eight eight fifteen  eight fifteen fine  you will also go ? oh yes i'll see you there and talk in okay then we can discuss uh what to write in the  sheet yeah uh what what are your impressions about this uh breakfast system here in the w c a and all that like eaten do you think it  no at all   one word i straight way you are also planning something to do on no but food does it asked in that no i what i want yes you to take uhm this is the last day of our our stay here yeah so you shoud take the best  what would you like here  oh   accha   haan  i don't think they have any choice  no what would you like what is your choice ? well actually today i am not feeling very well in the tummy  laughter  so you can have some light something light with cornflake uhn okay things like that fine  hello  who am i ? ahn  who am i ? patil kaka laughter  you are so wise uhn uhn  you've become more wise after going to sangli   walchand college of engineering uhn  tumcha awaz   tumcha awaz mala lagech odhakto  uhn no no speak in english okay speak in english  okay  okay  let me see how you speak in englsih after going to walchand college  i've begun to speak horrible english after  i've gone to sangli   horrible english let me see that horrible english ahn  what sort of horrible englsih come on demonstrate  laughter  say say something come on tell me   sir you'll hear it after you meet me uhn  you'll here it after you meet me  uh not after i meet you i want to listen to you on telephone uhm well tell me what what did you do in the last week in sangali  ? from monday to friday  well i just passed time  just passed time we haven't got any bookset from the library  what do you mean  you haven't got any books in the library yes what what happened in the classes then ? you have a number of classes  yes which classes were they ? well maths physics chemistry and all that applied maths  ah mechan ah ha mechanical  ah   ah ha  is there any difference between what you are learning there and what you learnt here in your college in kolhapur  yes uhn  of course difference in terms of teachers teaching and classroom and other facilities  yes  uhn what is it ? many teachers speak good englsih there laughter  many teachers speak in good english  yes  in sangli yes and what happened in kolhapur vivekanand college  well that was a junior college laughter  alright  so what else ? how about your food arrangement in sangli ? well the mess hasn't started yet but  in hostel  where do you eat then going to start on the on this i mean monday monday yes  but where do you eat at present ?  willingdon's willingdon's mess   willingdon's mess yes is it good ? yes  how is it and what do you get to eat everyday ? nothing sweet  nothing sweet no sweet usual things usual thing what are the usual things what are the usual things uhn  tell me the usual things that you get everyday   rice and chapati   uhn  okay rice chapati ah and uh  bhaji or koshimbir   ah  what bhaji is it ? anything  anything  yes  which bhaji do you like more there ? but i have eaten only twice or thrice  only twice or thrice yes what happens during the other days ? you don't eat ? no i do eat i went to kaku's   place  uh i know that i can guess it  you go to your kaku's place and eat there yes  and compensate for the loss ahn laughter  uh so what else ? what about your entertainment in the hostel ? well we two words   how about your hostel mate ? tell me about hostel mates ? have you any new friends now ? yes staying in the hostel ? yes the seniors girls  how how how many are there in the hostel ? how many girls are there in the hostel ? twenty to twenty-five girls are there  uh how many in the room ? uh two two in a room yes how are the room rooms by the way very small  very small yes  how is the arrangement in the room ? i mean the furniture your just two tables and two chairs two tables and two chairs and what else ? and a cupboard  and two cupboards   nahi only one cupboard only one cupboard yeah to be shared by you two yeah ah and what else ? nothing else ? an easy-chair  uhn  an easy-chair  pardon easy-chair arm-chair no it means it in dada 's  house there laughter i haven't no no i want you to talk to me  ah ha i see no no  abhi aap ka college two words    no no  have you have started your classes there ah ? like have you started teaching in the cla  college ?  arre we started it almost when was that one month back   when was that  one month back ahn i see  nahi tar  which which classes were may be junior college then ahn  may be junior college   i'm talking about senior college sir  uh you are saying one month one month back you are saying ah  when ? twenty-fourth  twenty-fourth of june twenty-fourth of june june  ah i see right on time yeah right on time then on twenty-eighth we started s y ah ha ah ha then we started with uh m com ah ha then we started with t y i see t y is the last t y is the last but results were not available ah ha ha because of  after the result ane ke fourth day the classes start ah ha that's right  admissions are over in two days ah ha  listing and other things for one day and time-table  ah ha fourth of this they start  i see  uhn ah ha  and then what about your admissions all admissions are closed now all admissions are obviously close as soon as they open ah ha within a day or two so much rush they are finalized  so much rush  uhm uhm uhm and how about other things other activities in the college ? other activities uh  extra-curricular activities so far at the moment there is no election two words  results ah ha because there is still time for that everybody is not sure ah ha when the elections are to be hold held and the notification of the university hasn't come but are they going to be held at all ? i don't know  uhm in the light of   that will that will depend upon the  university authority uhm uhm  if they bring out the notification we'll have to hold the election but this year they will do that this year perhaps they will have to  they will have to because it is in the statute it is in the statute  because the act has gone through  ah the act hasn't gone through so far it it hasn't gone through that's right  so maybe from next year it they may not be held one doesn't know  ah  now-a-days the act is passed as it is ? uhm uhm   tasa hoyil asa watat nahi  did you did you by the way go through the new act ? ah no i have not been able to lay my hands on it   did you've any occasion to go through it  uhn   i've not been able to lay my hands on that i see not yet not yet  you must have heard something about it did you attend the meeting ?  two words indiffernt also no there was a meeting the other day  ah i thought it was organized by suta  it was  did you attend it ? but i was not very particular because i said anyway well whatever provisions we'll come to know about it  ah ha  still i am not acting on the behalf of the union very actively  not actively this year ? uhn not why why not ? not so much  not so much  uhn these all frustration on the part of uh my betterhalf  your betterhalf is here  i know all decisions are not of that case ah  i two words also ahn dampen  ahn  i know i know this is very sad  anyway but then how about your boss  how is he ? fine  all bosses are usually fine all bos bosses look fine ah  ah appear fine all bosses are fine in their own ways including my boss ah absolutely  your your boss is probably the finest because he has he has just had a tour abroad you you mean he is the finest  ahn our boss is the finest ahn  because he is just back from abroad ahn  ah ha polished  ah polished he has got decently polished  one word  in europe and  uhn first he met all his uh near and dear ones there he did ahn he did laughter  so 