the ground water  i was talking about the rain water which enters which falls on the surface of the earth is distributed in three ways now can you tell me the three ways in which it is distributed  yes naresh ? uh first it percolates uh means uh it percolates   where does it percolate ? uh when it falls on the ground yes ? what happens to it ? it gathers into ponds correct  and it falls as rain sit down  which is the other one ? miss it is evaporated  okay it evaporates  third one ? which is the third way in which the rain water is it goes underground  okay he said it goes underground on slopes the streams are formed  correct   slopes down the slope the streams are formed  good afternoon sir addressed to another teacher who came in   sit down sit down  sit down  so which is the third way ? it flows down the slope to the river to form a river  so the three ways in which the rain water which falls on the surface of the earth is distributed  first thing it is eva some part of it evaporate  second one it flows into small streams streams to join to form a river  and the third one is that it percolates inside into the  surface of the earth  now the third one which the water percolates inside the earth forms what we'll call as what would you call it ?  to the river  well  okay well  but where are these wells ?  where does where is the water in the well ? ground correct  that is underground water  so today we are going to study about the work how this  of underground water bb-work  how this underground water is useful to man  now underground water you know the water percolates inside the earth  but it is not the same throughout on every part of the surface  it is going to be different and it depends on various  factors  now yesterday we were doing i told you about how water falls are formed  okay ? and we were talking about the structure of the earth  now suppose we take a mountain  this is the base noise  as i told you yesterday the waterfall has underneath it  you have permiable non-permiable   non-permiable  what do you mean by non-permiable structure ? in which the water doesn't percolate correct  because the surface is hard and because it's not porous the water cannot get inside  now when the rain water is falling on the surface it gets as you told me goes inside  now where is this water going to settle ? yes ? it goes under ground where do you mean ? what do you mean by ? at the base correct  somewhere here  is it not ? now this part is going to form what you call as the water table  is it not ? this part where the water is settled down is called as a water table   now this now this amount of water in this water table would depend on various factors  can you tell me what would it depend on ?  one or two words  correct the amount of rainfall  now wherever er those areas which have  high rainfall the water is going to be more in percolate more inside anything else ? nature of the soil inside the water table correct the nature of the soil  excellent answer  where esle ? what all what are the other points ? third one yes ? inside the earth loudly please  inside the earth  correct he said he said the same thing the nature of the soil  structure or level of level of the water table okay sometimes  he is given a different answer but that is also sometimes what happens that er uh mountain may have two water table you know two in the in a  non-permiable wa structures like in the cases i told you about a waterfall  now here the waterfall is going to be above  there are going to be two different waterfalls water tables  this wat kind of water table is called as perched  water table  is that understood ? now which is the other point on which the water table the amount of water is going is going to depend on ? level of the ground  okay the level of the ground  what else ? loudly please close the door  size of the mountain size of the mountain anything else ? see the top of the mountain the tip is not a very big place not a very you know it's it's got it has  uh how would you define a mountain ? yes naresh ? the area of high altitude with steep slopes to the land correct now what is the second point you said was steep slope  is it not ? nahid  now this area is going to continue  if the slope is steep what will happen ? yes uh mukesh ? the circulation will be easy the circulation would be easy of what ? anybody else ? sit down  yes kabra ? the water is sloped down  okay and what would happen ? continue with that now what ? the water is percolated correct the the slopes some you know more steep you would have more water getting inside the water table  so these are the various aspects on which the waterfall  the water table depends  something else ah now let's go back to our very basic  how do rain fall ? on what do they depend on ? the amount of water evaporated correct  evaporation correct something else ? good point when something else related to that yes ballal ? there is there more water okay what happens where where which are the regions where you would have more water ? you know more more rains to be more precise yes ? the slope of the mountain correct  something else ? it is actually two words which is uh okay  and then  you're coming somewhere near  miss uh the water get deposit  okay now next  all the points you hilly regions hilly region  okay hilly regions  hilly regions hilly region  yes ? from the sea  sea okay  you're getting you know trees correct  excellent where there is more vegetation because of the leaves attract the water as a more scientific reason  you would have what is called as more rainfall there because of the trees so vegetation is the point noise  the other is evaporation  yes ?  one or two words  okay afterwards  now these are the various fa factors on which the water table is formed now what does this water table why is it used ? how is it used ? how does man use this water table ? can you think ? how does the man how does man use this water table ? by taking water from the well correct in the form of well yes ? by digging canals  its inside  yes ? wells okay wells of different type  now we see now we have seen in various movies and we have heard in various documentory we have heard in we've read in newspapers and we just know through our general knowledge that uh  we cannot you know dig a well any way which you like  now can you tell me why is it so ? underground underground ? springs are there okay he says underground springs exist we will talk about what is a spring afterwards some places are uh weak  okay very weak but something else you know water is not getting in correct yes or they may be to be more precise  anything the area is non-permiable yes non-permiable yet some wherever vary where those regions then you have water table and where it is easy for the man to dig you may have   what wells  you know where the water table is high and exist possible for man to find dig for a well  now in maharashtra you have under konkan coast tapi purna basin other various areas where a lot of wells are found because of the water table is even in the sahyadri  now can you tell me why in the sahyadri ? the reason is very obvious  in the hilly region because of excessive rainfall and it may have the structure of permiable and non-permiable rocks you may have well there  somebody said that the wells are dug in areas where there are springs  now how would you define a spring ? you know what a spring is ? everybody likes to go to lonavala for holidays rainy ti  season specially and you see a lot of springs and waterfalls also  now how would you describe a spring ? yes ? the water which uh slope underground falls from a head we did something like that way it is similar definition what was that ? a waterfall there is a difference between a waterfall and a spring  ground water is one word the ground water you can see on uh tap also  is it not ? how would you differentiate between a spring a tap and a waterfall  ? the underground water coming out with force correct  underground water comes out with force as she said  it is a natural outflow of water from the interior of the earth  now where does this water come out from ? can you just link up whatever we did till now and try to tell me the answer  yes bilwa ? the water table and loudly bilwa ? there are water table and the okay  they were there are water table and the earth crust is weak  so there are the regions where you have waterfalls  where you have something called a spring bb-work  now suppose here there is a crack or a weak structure  now the water this is the whole the whole   water table  the water is coming out  and you would have what you would term as a spring  so spring is the natural outflow of water some from the interior of the earth where the crust is weak  now the springs are of different types  springs suppose there is a cavity you know there is she said the crust is weak now suppose if there is a cavity here  you know what a cavity is ? what is a cavity ? empty space yes ? empty space empty space  okay a kind of a hole you see here where is this term used mostly cavity ? where have you heard this term ? dental problem dental problem  cavity is with all the people  everybody all of us like eating sweets and we develop what you call as a cavity is it not ? so suppose similarly the now take imagine the structure of the earth the mountain or any place bb-work  like a mouth having a cavity now when the rain water falls on the surface what is going to happen ? there it store water correct all the water might get inside and get stored here  and suppose there is a crack due to erosion you would have a spring coming out  now this spring it may be termed as uh cycle spring a cycle spring  where there is a cavity in the earth in the you know in interiors you would have the water get stored and due to some crack or erosion of some kind the water comes out through some outlet to form a spring and that kind of spring is called as a cycle spring  now from the spring we will go to something which i was telling you yesterday as a continuation that because of the structure of the earth and because of the various minerals found in the earth you have beautiful structures underground caves formed somewhere  now i will show you suppose there is an area  you know earth consist of maleable minerals  now suppose there is this surface of the earth which is  which's got a lot of lime in it lime stone structure limestone how uh how how would you what is the you know how would you call that uh the scientific name for it ? the i don't know how to tell you that  now h two o is carbon uh water you say how uh how would you call limes ? calcium give me in alphabets c a c o three okay bb-work somebody said c a c o three  if an area has got a lot of c a c o three as you say what would happen ? how does this dissolve ? this does not dissolve in water alone  you have some yes ? carbon di-oxide correct  the carbon di-oxide which is in the air and which  you know join the uh is mixed with the rain water makes it to  weakens the limestone structure and make a lot of depressions erosion takes place  and this area where this surface of the earth where limestone structure is in dominant is a dominant rock structure we would call it as a limestone topa topography  limestone topography  or for you to know something more about bb-work  it is also called as a cast topography   cast topography it is taken from the word cast it is a name of a district in yugoslovia  it is got which is prominent rock structure is the limestone structure  that is why it is also called as termed as a cast  topography from its name of the district cast in yugoslavia  now as i told you erosion takes place with when c a c o three  mixed and the water which you have carbon di-oxide leads to dis  uh leads to limestone dissolving with water and having displaced small kind of depression  now small this may be termed as a pot hole bb-work  a bigger one may be termed as a as gorges to termed as  gorges  now if this continuous say years together you have very beautiful structure forming then  now this you know this the limestone dissolving this water  and sometimes what happen when the limestone dissolves with the water some part of the the lime remains behind  others get you know it washes away with the water and a very small millimeter of lime is remained there  is that understood ? similar structure will take place at the base at the surface  a small structure may remain here or the other water which has lime is washed away  now this goes on for years you know millions of years small small limestones particles remaining behind and they have been given different term  now this is called as stalagmite  stalag mite the other is the stalactites t i t e s stalactites now for you this is very confusing how or how you are going to remember which is stalactite and which is stalagmite stalagmite which is stalagmite ? i will tell you something to remember  mite something to do with mice it rhymes with it  due to some extent mice where is it found ? on the surface  so stalagmites are on the ground stalactites are on the  ce ceiling 