what is the difference between h and h two ? difference between h and h two ? raise your hands if you know   name of student  no he was sitting in the ninth standard  okay  what is the difference between h and h two ? nobody ? one is uh  yes yes h is the one atom of hydrogen and h two is the one molecule of hydrogen yes that is this particular h stands for the atomic symbol of hydrogen while h two is the formula or molecular formula of  hygrogen noise  what is it h stands for ?  atomic symbol while h two stands for  the molecular formula   atomic symbol   the molecular formula  okay what is the relative atomic mass of hydrogen ? relative atomic mass raise your hand one point zero zero eight one point zero zero eight   eight  okay isotopes of hydrogen ? isotopes of hydrogen ? no ? rahul ? molecules of hydrogen stand up and say  molecules noise of horn  kiran ?  a few words   a few words  now when you put that one word one and one what does this means ? which isotope is this indicate ?  noise  what does this particular symbol indicate or this representation indicate ? yes savita ? it is uh it is ? the one word   noise  so what will one h one stand for ?  procium   procium okay now tell why do you guess or first tell me what is this subscript stand for and the superscript stand for ? noise  subscript stands for ? atomic number atomic number  nupur subscript stand for what ? mass number mass number mass number atomic number atomic number so okay what does this particular subscript stand for ? mass number mass number  why are they written mass numbers here ? or what will show the formula one or two words   because there is a difference there are different numbers of neutrons  because there is difference in the number of  neutrons   neutrons  and neutrons or mass number means ? noise  mass number means ? number of protons number of  protons  number of protons plus number of neutrons   neutrons  present in the the nucleus of an atom  the nucleus of an atom   the nucleus of an atom  all right okay then next we go to about the occurance of hydrogen  hydrogen can occur in in which two states ? hydrogen can occur in which two states ? jivan ? we get the atom in the free state give the example where where it is occuring in the free state in sun in ? sun  sun and ? noise and ? atmosphere atmosphere of  earth earth and  sun  sun okay rakesh in the other state give me the examples ? rocks and minerals  in the rocks and minerals see so hydrogen occurs in two different states in the free state and in the combined state in the free state it is specially present in the atomsphere of the sun and in the other stars of the universe and in the combined state it can be present in the rocks and minerals and what else ? tissues  tissues of ? animals and plants okay next is about the preparation of hydrogen  now you can prepare hydrogen by two words  noise  there are some general methods of preparation of hydrogen isn't it  ? give me some names you can prepar  prepare hydrogen from ? sejal cold water from cold water okay  then ? boiling water boiling water and ? alkali noise  alkali  alkali any more ? any more ?  that's all  teacher in water gas from that is found after the industrial or the commercial production   industrial or the commercial production  these all are mentioned here are the general methods of  preparation while these what you mention now were for gas  this industrial process of preparation of hydrogen okay sit down now give me one example for preparation of hydrogen from cold water ? yes sachin ? potassium calcium  what are they ? what are they ?  potassium calcium   active metals  they are ? active metals active metals how do you know they are active metals ? sameer ? they react violently  they react violently so ? they are active metals they react with uh cold water and produce uh  okay they react i know but how do you come to know they are  active metals ? yes sheetal ? from the activity series of metals from the activity series of metals  they are present at the sit down they are present at the  ? top  top of the ? series so those metals which are at the top of series in the active series are called as the active metals so active metals like potassium sodium and calcium react with  cold water to produce hydrogen   hydrogen  okay now explain the process of reaction of potassium with cold water ? replacement one word  how does potassium react with cold water ?  noise  how does potassium react ? student name  how does potassium react with cold water ? when potassium ash is added to cold water what happens ? ajit ? no do not know how they react ? do you know the equation ? do you know the equation or no ? the reactions ? no potassium with water will give you what ?  one word  you are preparing what is that ? what are you preparing ? hydrogen so one product is going to be ? hydrogen  k o  teacher  three uh okay so we were discussing about potassium  reacting with water  potassium  one product isotope will be hydrogen hydrogen  hydrogen  so what will be the other product ? k o h k o h that is what ? potassium potassium hydroxide potassium hydroxide   hydroxide  now tell me the process completely in detail  that is the whole process which you wrote in an eq  equation involved in it  yes hemant ? it is not used i want the process it is not used i know  but if you add it to water it will show some reaction the the reaction will be violent and and and  endo endothermic  endothermic ? it is an endothermic noise  what is the difference between endothermic and exothermic  ? what is the difference between endothermic and exothermic ? teacher teacher teacher  come on come on hurry up  in the endothermic it is revolved and in exothermic it is evolved no noise  anybody else ? exothermic is reactions in which heat is evolved  exothermic alright that was right what about endothermic ? no heat is evolved ? heat is heat is absorbed  do you follow or no ? so when potassium reacts with water what happens ? it reacts violently and it is an exothermic reaction what else any other point left ? any other point left ? what happens to the heat that is evolved ? ignites  it ignites the hydrogen gas yes it ignites the hydrogen gas that is formed  next is what happens with sodium ? how does cold water react with sodium metal ? tanuja ? noise  hurry up  reaction with sodium is evolved uh with more thing is  and it reacts with one word and sod   sodiumness forming slowly reacts with the  probably revolved above the water ah and when it revolves in water what happens ? it noise  to obtain the noise  i am not asking that when it is revolving in water what happens ? why is it revolving in water ? because its  reacting with water to give you hydrogen  hydrogen gas and   hydrogen   a few words  in sodium hydroxide noise  the active metals like potassium sodium calcium react  one product is hydrogen because you are using it to prepare hydrogen only and the other is always the product found in hydroxide  if it is potassium it will be potassium hydroxide if it is sodium it will be sodium hydroxide if it is uh calcium it will be  calcium hydroxide  alright sit down now if you want to obtain a steady flow of hydrogen gas  from while preparing it from sodium metal what do you have to do to obtain a steady flow from the gas ? of the gas ? kiran ? sodium metal is amalgamated  is amalgamated means what is it done ? amalgamated what is the meaning of the term amalgamated ? thats one word  no that is the different term totally noise what does it do or what do you understand by amalgam or amalgamated ? its an alloy miss an alloy of metal with mercury yes it is an alloy of a metal with mercury so you have to amalgamate sodium with mercury and what else do what else do you have to do ? that is the only thing you have to do teacher to obtain the steady flow of the gas  savita ?  teacher  wrap it in a wire box  wrap it in a wire box okay so you what will happen then you will get a steady flow of the hydrogen gas that is evolved  then next we go to calcium  how does water reacts with calcium ? i already gave you the answer before itself  how does calcium react with water ? if you have listened to me carefully you will know what it is   one word  the first thing we said about potassium  we said what ? the reaction is one word violent  rigorous and exotherm   one word  after that we place sodium because it is less vigorous than  potassium okay and thirdly now we have to come at calcium  so now it will be ? hydrogen potassium and sodium draw back to both sodium and potassium   potassium  alright now what is it left ? or why cannot we use calcium in ?  noise  why cannot we use calcium  why can't we use calcium in the production of hydrogen ? hydrogen  why cannot we use calcium in the production of hydrogen ? minaz  because it is an expensive method because it is an expensive method   method  okay now how do we collect the hydrogen that is formed in all these above cases ? by downward method how do we collect the hydrogen gas that is formed ? rakesh ? by downward downward displacement of by downward displacement of water  aftab tell me why do you have to collect it by downward displacement of water only ?  a few words  why do we collect with by downward displacement of water  what is the reason ? because it is slightly soluble in water slightly soluble in slightly soluble in a slightly soluble in water slightly soluble in water and what else ? what is the other reasons ? and lighter than air  and lighter than air   air  so you collect it by the downward displacement of  water   water  then next is about preparation of hydrogen from boiling water which metals react with boiling water to give you hydrogen ?  noise  amit which metals react with boiling water to give you hydrogen ?  a few words  no it's not so magnesium magnesium only magnesium zinc  iron iron  zinc and there is one more metal  iron  iron  iron okay  so magnesium reacts with ?  one word  so these magnesium zinc and iron are ? less active metals less active metals than potassium sodium and calcium  they react with water now a bit differently than  what uh than how the sodium potossium and calcium were reacting what is the difference ? none ? the intention is to prepare hydrogen only or to be burnt hydrogen when the reactor is boiling water  but what is the difference between the other two process the other one word  are you following the question or no ? no both these metal or all these metals these three metals  the active metals potassium calcium and sodium are reacting with water to give you hydrogen and something else what is that ? the hydroxide of those metals right here these metals magnesium zinc and iron which are less active than potassiun sodium and calcium are reacting with water to give you hydrogen but they are giving you some other product what is that ?