today we are study studying  about rotation and revolution of the earth  i believe you know there are two forces two  motions of the earth  one is on its own axis and the other is  ? around the sun around the sun  the motion on its own axis is known as   noise  what is known that motion is known as   bb- work  rotation of the earth  earth  and the movement of the earth round the sun   is known as   revolution  revolution of the earth earth  now what time does the earth take to take  one turn on its axis ? twenty-four hours twenty-four hours  is your answer complete ? twenty-four hours or less than that ? sir twenty-four hours  it is twenty-four hours with reference to the sun  but if you take it with reference to any other star  then it will be less than twenty four hours    twenty-four hours  say for example this one here  we are taking this as a reference point this side  and then want wanted this much  in twenty-four hours in less than twenty-four hours but in twenty-four hours what happens ? the earth moves a little around the earth because in three sixty-five days the earth has to complete  complete one movement   twenty-four hours  so naturally one day if it is a three hundred and sixty degrees bb-work  then one day roughly we have three sixty  bb-work five days bb-work  but let us say this is three hundred and sixty degrees then  it will take roughly uh four minutes less  than twenty-four hours  because in but we find actually uh  say every fourth year is a big year is a leap year  leap year  means one day is added and in one day  we say the earth takes one turn but this is with reference to any particular say this window in this case  so with reference to window but in one day the earth has advanced a little and this way second day uh say two minutes third day three minutes and this way in one year three hundred and sixty degrees it has moved round the sun  so naturally if we take this this way three sixty degrees that is one minute or better put it this way bb-work if it is three sixty degree also means bb work  in one day  one degree  one degree makes a difference in time of four minutes   bb work  we have noted fifteen degrees making a difference of bb work one hour bb-work   one hour  so one degree will make a difference of how many minutes ? four minutes  two  four minutes bb work  fifteen degree divided uh say bb work  sixty minutes sixty sixty minutes dividing this so  four minutes   sixty   four minutes  so one degree makes a difference of four minutes four minutes means every day the earth has to turn  one degree  in order to face the sun  suppose it is here this day next day it will turn this  next day again this much  this much  one degree every day bb- work  so with reference to any other star our day is less than twenty-four hours and that is  twenty-three hours and  twenty-four hours  half of fifty-four minutes  twenty-three hours and fifty-four minutes  bb-work  so what is this state ? a day of twenty-three hours and fifty-four minutes  that is called sideral day bb-work sideral day  one degree less than twenty-four hours and then we have another solar day that is of twenty-four hours  that is of twenty-four hours  so we have two kinds of days one with reference to any other star of universe twenty-three hours fifty-four minutes  and we have another day with reference to the sun that is of  twenty   four hours bb-work   twenty-four hours  you also know that the earth's  axis is inclined  towards bb-work  the earth is moving round the sun and the  earth's  axis with reference to the plane of orbit or orbital plane  also called elliptical plane or plane of ecliptic  bb-work plane of elliptic  this is an imaginary plane  let us say this table is a plane and  on this plane  the earth's axis is inclined this way  like this here  so this is an imaginary plane in this case here  near the table  but in that space a plane like this is there  and the earth is occupying this kind of position and then sun in the middle  so with reference to this imaginary plane that is  plane of ecliptic  plane of ecliptic  ecliptic bb-work  the plane with reference to the plane of ecliptic  or orbital plane bb- work  the earth's axis is inclined how many degrees ? let us say this is the plane of ecliptic  and it is like this bb-work  so this inclination how many degrees ? cannot be ninety  forty  forty-five degrees fifty fifty  fif  this is  forty-five degrees   sixty-six and half degrees  sixty-six and half degrees bb-work  like this  if this is the plane of ecliptic this point see this  bb-work  this is exactly here if you put it this way   bb-work  much inclined from vertical it will be twenty-three and half  bb- work  this is sixty-six and half bb-work  and this is  twenty-three and a half bb-work  together ninety degrees  so with reference to the plane of ecliptic  the  earth's axis has an inclination of sixty-six and half degrees but when you take it from perpendicular this is the plane of ecliptic then perpendicular then from there if you take this angle then it will be twenty-three and half  so you can express it this way with reference to the plane of ecliptic the earth's axis bb-work has an inclination of sixty-six and half degrees  but from perpendicular drawn from the plane of ecliptic  the earth's axis has an inclination of  twenty-three and half  degrees   twenty-three and half  now there is a one question   bb- work here bb-work say this is the plane of ecliptic  bb-work  we have a arc bb-work here  bb-work  and we have this inclination bb-work   you might have studied this kind of things sometimes  bb-work  must have you studied  four positions of the earth bb-work  round the  sun  so sometimes you find this kind of  diagram  bb-work also sometimes you find bb-work  this kind of diagram bb-work  also sometimes you find bb-work this kind of diagram now which one is correct ? sir  the first one because of the why do you say the first one is correct ? give arguments   one word  now let us see and one more  bb-work  when you have like this ?  a few words   bb-work  why ?  a few words  sir earth is the  may be slanting the earth's axis is inclined inclined  uh  uh with reference to the pe at twenty twenty-three and half it has perpendicular from perpendicular  from the axis here what is the case ? um revolves uh but yes ? the axis of the earth is uh  revolved what do we mean by sixty-six and half degrees from the plane of ecliptic bb-work  this is the plane of ecliptic for our purpose here we are measuring this  this is imaginary now remember  here we have salved it so sixty-six and half  if we put it here is it not sixty-six and half  ?  bb-work  measure this angle bb-work because this is plane  imaginary so measure from here  is it not sixty-six and half ? yes it is  if you put it here  again the difference again after the you measure from this side  so it may also be there yes sir  so what about this ? is it correct ? this is correct at least because we put it this way yes sir  so it's like this the position has changed so this is correct  right ? yes sir  if you put it this way what is wrong ?  bb-work  measure from this side  one sixty-six and half  you put it here  measure from this side sixty-six and half  from here same thing sixty-six and half so is it not correct ? bb-work  this much  why do you say that this is correct this is wrong ?  one or two words  and what about this ? look at this one  twenty-three and half degree and with a correct size correct  but where do you find twenty-three and half degrees  or sixty-six and half degrees do you find here ? but it is  how ? let us see  here put it this way sixty-six and half degrees but from your side it is appearing perpendicular perpendicular but it is at sixty-six and half  is it at ? it is at sixty-six and half  not here also sixty-six and half  but from your side it appears perpendicular uhm  so one way this is also correct  but what about this ? bb-work  some are like this some are like this  so what is needed they all must be   inclined  in the same direction   inclined   direction  they must be inclined in the same direction   same direction  but otherwise all these three are correct  how many days the earth or what time the earth takes to take one round around the sun ? sir days or days days or time better say time   sir three sixty-five days  three sixty-five days three sixty-five days  is it ? bb-work  yes sir  once a year  once a year   bb-work  because we have a longer year after four years so it it is also one fourth  bb-work of a day   noise long pause  now let us see if this is the position  of four positions of the earth round the sun  then you also know that two days in a year  the sun's  vertical rays strikes at the equator  we have noted  two days in a year  what are those days ? yes december twenty-second noise   bb-work  two days in a year the sun's  vertical rays  strikes at the equator  means the days and nights are equal all over the world  sir sir twenty-second december  twenty-second december and it is also in the  one or two words  when do we have longest day in india or here ? twenty-first twenty-one twenty-second june twenty-second let us take twenty-second bb-work  june sir twenty-first june bb-work  okay twenty-first june bb work  the day is longest in northern hemisphere  means where does the wait let us say take also when do we have the shortest day ? sir january twenty-second december  february   exactly the after six months   sir twenty-second december  sir twenty-first jan it should exactly be after six months  exactly after six months  sir twenty-first jan it should exactly be after six months  so it cannot be january  sir december  sir december sir december what date ? twenty-second december december twenty second okay bb work sometimes uh one also writes twenty-third  december  so from twenty-fourth december bada din   bb work  we have christmas on twenty-fifth  so say it may also be twenty-third december  bb work so this is summer season in india  this is summer bb work  summer of northern hemisphere bb work  this is winter of  northern hemisphere   northern hemisphere bb work  now you tell when do we have  vertical rays shining at the equator  it must be also in between  so what may be the dates ? when the sun's vertical rays fall  or strike  on the equator or at the equator ? bb work  sir march  twenty-third march   bb work  twenty-second twenty-third  twenty-first   twenty-first march  march  any other day ? no sir no sir sir march fifth  after six months what date it may be ? sir september september twenty-second  so twenty-second september  twenty-second september  bb work  now if this is the case where will you put  these days  four days we have now bb work  one bb work this bb work  here  bb work here bb work  put it this way bb work one two three  bb work and four bb work  where will you put twenty-second december  ? what happens on twenty-second december ? where does the vertical uh ray of the sun  strike ? at the tropic of cancer at the tropic of capricorn ? capricorn  so this is tropic of capricorn vertical rays striking here  and the southern hemisphere south pole has  day for six months bb work  see here bb work   sun's rays are vertical at the tropic of capricorn  yes and all these areas are under sunlight  so this position will be from which date ? twenty-second december   december   bb work  what is the position here ? bb work  sir twenty-third uh twenty-first june twenty-first june  right sir ternty-second june okay twenty-second june bb work  it all depends upon because sometime you have leap year sometime you do not have so it may be twenty-first it may be twenty-second and sometime people even write twenty-third  so that doesn't make much difference 