you have stated in your examination ki   that on twenty twentieth january nineteen ninety-two when  you was you were at night night station house duty at ghatkopar police station yes sir  at about eight thirty-five pm you received a telephonic message from rajawadi hospital from a constable  yes  can you tell this honourable court that you have  that entry in the police station diary about this message yes  can you tell the name of the police constable ?  he's name is sekharam  only uh uh buckle number is here  alright  there is no name  i have made the station diary entry in the wake of a message telephone message a telephonic message   received from received from rajawadi rajawadi   hospital hospital  however i've noted only buckle number  telephone message   received from   rajawadi   hospital  name i don't know i've only one word   bu buckle number  however i've noted only buckle number and not his name  and not his name  what is the distance between ghatkopar police station and rajawadi hospital ? near about five kilometres  near about five kilometres  ah that's all  pardon  five kilometres  the distance between ghatkopar police station and rajawadi hospital is about five kilometres  yes sir  when did you reach at what time exactly you reach  rajawadi hospital ? say eight forty-five quarter to nine  i reached rajawadi hospital at about eight forty-five pm  then who informed you ? the constable informed me  the same constable  same constable had informed  on duty officer  how did you go to rajawadi hospital from your police station ? by rickshaw  when did you contact your police station thereafter ? immediately i contact  how ? what he said after the doctor pronounced him dead  no no he contacted the police station  no no  no he didn't said doctor pronounced read it just now i read that enquiry   constable informed him  doctor on duty who said he's dead  i contacted police station  better tell me did you contacted contact  this salunkhe rajarampur ? i contacted  where you have contacted ? in rajawadi hospital  i contacted salunkhe rajarampur into bracket  into bracket p w one at rajawadi hospital  whether this p w one was in the hospital ? yes sir  yes salunkhe rajarampur into bracket p w one bracket over was in the hospital  better tell this honourable court in which ward room number and which ward or on which cot this deceased was ? he was in casualty forty  casualty ward number forty  where is that ward ? also you inform the court where is that ward ? the injured was admitted its on the groundfloor right  on the groundfloor  at casualty ward number fourteen in marathi   forty four zero on the on the ground floor   on the  now you have stated before this honourable court in your examination chit that you have recorded the f i r yes  then you tell me or tell this honourable court how you have recorded this f i r in the hospital ? how means ? how means in what manner ? by writing  how means how means ? how means in what manner he has recorded ? whether he has recorded on a particular printed form ? no   a few words   whe whether you have recorded this f i r on a printed form ? no  whether you have recorded this f i r on a printed form ? no  i have not recorded f i r on a f i r form  then how you have recorded ? on blank paper  alright  i have recorded the f i r on a blank paper   in marathi exhibit show that exhibit six f i r  a few words  my question is whether you have mentioned any time  when you recorded this f i r ? yes i mentioned it in f i r  then point out where you have mentioned this time ? when you recorded this p w one statement  at that time p w one was not there is not in the hospital  but according to the on this paper  did you mention time on this paper ? uh whether time is mentioned in f i r form to one word but it has to be mentioned in your format of that part  tell honourable court that you recorded this f i r  whether after arrival of s h pawar c h savant  s h sekhar or before that ? yes on arrival of them i have recorded f i r exhibit exhibit six  under the supervision of c h savant   f i r exhibit exhibit six  you have mention mentioned in your examination chit that you have contacted the police station  and collected c r number ? yes  i put it to you that you are telling lies ? i did not contact  did not phone  i did not phone telephone police station and  obtained the c r number obtained c r c r number  so now you are saying that you have collected the c r number yes  what you you did after receiving the c r number ? after five days   nahi  what you did after receiving the c r number ? then i recorded the true then i collected data  and when i received this uh then i got this uh c r number  tell them not to go  taking c r number i left the police station and  review  in a printed format  and filled in this printed form   format of f i r in detailed detailed in detailed in detailed under the one word   in detailed  in this f i r this complainant has not mentioned  or has not described the life  with due respect soni that question case only been asked to the person for one word that is the complainant  he is merely a scribe  he is merely a scribe the person who could have been asked this is the com complainant itself  but did he mention ? sure if if it is mentioned it can be read easily more question you can point it out  his assertion or denial is not necessary   it's alright   a few words  i put it to you that you have not recorded the statement of p w one in the hospital  you have recorded the statement in the police station  no it is not correct to say that i have recorded   exhibit six exhibit six f i r at the police station  exhibit six   f i r  i i put it to you that the information given by the constable to you on telephone was the first information  it is if asking a witness about his opinions question of uh  opinion   it's not about it's not a  opinion   a person here person is admitted it is a preparatory  unorganised alright it is also one word  uh it's not a opinion  a person here person is admitted it is a preparatory it is a organised one word  unorganised alright it is also worthwhile  alright sir question of arguments and not question of evidence  it's alright   one word yes sir it is not a question of evidence it is the question of argument  yes sir  yes sir  the statement which gives details one word  yes sir   it's a pure question of law  pure question of law  yes sir  unadulterated undiluted  now kindly tell this honourable court that how many  how many suspects house how many suspect houses  i will put it what he wants to ask actually how many person did you suspect suspect and how many houses you visited it is the question   suspect   uhm visited right right  one house sir  excellent  only one that's what you visited  only thing   that's obviously i suspected only one person and visited therefore only house  i suspected  only one person only one person  and visited and visited  his house his house  and that is placed before the court yeah and that is placed before the court  i asked you at what time did you visited the accuses house ?  that's on twenty-one january ninety  at what time ? in the night two one word  it means on in marathi  twenty first january nineteen ninety  on twenty first january nineteen ninety at two am  two am  at two am i visited the house of accused  can you tell the honourable court that how many members were there in his house ? only one uh mother and his wife   accused's wife   haan  whose wife ? accused wife  and his brother's wife no it's on the record  no sir the mother of the accused  and wife of the accused they were present in there then whom did you ask about the whereabouts of accused  ? i asked to this accused's wife  i asked the wife of the accused about his whereabouts about his whereabouts   in marathi about the whereabouts of one word   then you tell this honourable court what is the name of the  wife of the accused ?  begam   begam  the name of the wife of the accused is   begam   begam   begam a few words  did she introduce herself or uh you asked her ? pardon sir  you must have asked  yes sir i asked  uhn  on my question  on my question on my question  on my question she replied she replied  her name and her relation with  the accused with the accused  i suggest to you that you are telling lies before this honourable court  the accused is not married person   in marathi  yes he is married he is not bachelor say that  the accused is a bachelor  accused is a bachelor  who has recorded this uh this sorry panchnama  ? uh pardon  who has recorded this panchnama ? which panchnama   that's going in time my friend twenty seventh on twenty seventh  twenty seven i've yet to examine the officer  but he has not recorded  no no later on no more question  thank you  uh one one more question i put it to you that you called this p w one from his residence ? no not residence and you recorded the statement of p w one 