yes i am pratima from triveni academy  what about you ? i am sampat from tamil nadu   what's the name of the school you work in ? uh it's one word higher secondary school ambur  which class do you teach ? i am taking eleventh and twelfth standard but i am dealing only with chemistry not english   i'm not english teacher   chemistry  how do you find teaching english ? uh i like uh teaching english i like chemistry also oh it is just residential school or aided school  it is an aided government school  is there any hostel facilities there   no no uh uh it's said to be the oldest school the biggest school in north arcot  oh it is in north arcot north arcot the name of the place is north arcot   north arcot ambedkar district  but name of the place where school is situated ambur it is a town it is a town   you're a native of that city ha yes  it is not a city it is a town  ambur is run by a corporation  which is your native place ? our par parents belong to uh andhra and we've andhra telugu yes yes we came to uh tamil nadu about uh thirty years ago  we got settled in tamil nadu and we studied we were born only in tamil nadu then you are a tamilian even telugu yes tamil telugu laughter  telugu talking sorry tamil talking in telugu  telugu is origin and tamilian   yes yes but uh we don't know how to write telugu but we know only to speak  but you have learnt how to write read and speak every thing in tamil   oh that i have formal when when my mother was there i was writing  when she passed away i stopped it nobody she was very good in  telugu and my father also knows but uh i was not much interested in my father  then uh what about you ? i am from orissa  orissa yeah uh which school ? i what about you you want to know about my  teaching experience or   yes teaching experience where are you working  ? i am working in triveni academy triveni academy it is fifty kilometers away from madras madras  so yo u you got settled in madras ? yeah it's a residential school and i have to stay throughout the year yes what's your husband ?  he's working he's research scholar in bombay ha ha and he's working  and what about yours ? ah my husband is an engineer yeah uh he has this uh he is a government valuer for uh structural uh building stability building oh  he is working in the same place you work ? ha yes   he is he is doing his private oh and as well as assessing the the property of the buildings  schools uh theatres stability of the theatres everyone who constructs building he has they have to get the certificate of him  then only they will get the license to run the things he gives all the formal letters   yes yes  construction all before construction yes certificate how many children do you have ? i have one  is it a boy or a girl ?  boy boy  what is he doing ? uh he's doing tenth standard  third standard tenth tenth tenth standard   tenth standard  what about you ? no don't have any children ah  for that i can stay in a residential school  how it is very glad that we have met in this school yeah i see a number of people i like them very much   it's an opportunity   good oppurtunity very good yeah we have uttered the same words  yeah it's  opportunity to meet the people like you laughter  and for a month i think yeah we have passed in a a very good way  yeah  we feel we have come to know each other for a long  time  yes yes definitely   it's not for twenty days or one month  that's what   that's what i was talking to rekha that uh this course has given us so many things that we have not   it's brought us very close to each   other   each other and so many things we have learnt  while we are leaving this school i think we leave with some matter in our head not only english language but all laughter  so many things about the grammar and human   about human ways yes yes definitely   it's nice to see the people here and more than this the co-participants are very uh what can i say uh they are very sportive very co-operative co-operative very sportive  how do you find mysore ? uh because we have not gone anywhere laughs and we don't find time   you haven't been to any place  no so far i we have not gone anywhere except uh on one saturday we had been to a market to buy our plastic plastic material  you have not seen even mysore's marvellous palace  sometimes i come along with my students previously you had visited yes yes once i had been to palace  i visited the palace and some places it was one day tour  do you like the weather over here ? i like it i like this place  and what about the weather in your place ? so hot summer  i live in vellore but not in ambur i travel forty-five kilometers everyday  oh you are staying in vellore   forty-five to forty-five  yes i come i travel hundred kilometres everyday  so vellore it seems to be equal to madras  equal to triveni academy yeah where i stay laughter yes quite hot we have many students from vellore and i they have come to about ah ha city  aa ha  ah yes yeah but what about your institution i i heard that institution is very good  yeah because students come all over india even from outside india they study there  and we have it is a co-educational school and students from standard one to twelfth are there  oh uh so uhm   it's a large campus   large campus   large campus yeah uh what is the education here matriculation or  from standard one to standard twelfth and this year they have started other professional courses  like uh one word technology ha computer application  ha business management  even they have started uh higher secondary school of tamil nadu board also  and they are going to start a women's college  ha   ha   women's college yeah  they have planned it and i think they will be starting next year is it a big campus ? yeah it is  how many acres ? around eight fifty eight hundred fifty acres oh very big  it is a big campus very big so how about the performance of the students there ? they just they do well ? very well yeah  what's your strength ? last year it was around two thousand and i think this year it will be going up going up  so how many teachers are working there ? i think more than two hundred two hundred yeah so they have hostel facilities also  everyone has to stay on the campus on the campus not in the hostel in the hostel and they have married accomodation complex and they stay there  in the hostel   ha  oh complex is also there yeah  very nice  who is running that institituion ? managing director uh from madras and that do you know the madras motor finance corporation ? m m f c there is a uh like finance company in madras  ah they run that managing director of that company what is his name annamalik mrs no mr t v shivannair  p c p v c  t v shivannair  shivanniar yeah   he's a the managing director how do you find your school ?  it's good  yeah i enjoy staying on the campus that is the thing  laughter it's very neat and clean and  i enjoy my teaching in school because i studied in the same school you studied in the same school and you are teaching in the same school ah it's very enjoyable then no laughs  yes same school   yes i am teaching in the same school under my teachers  now the headmaster is my he's was my teacher  he was your teacher and now he is your colleague and boss and all  yes  everything just like   you're going to settle down in vellore itself ? i hope so  it is only a tentative uh what can we say  decision tentative decision  decision  we have not yet decided what to do next  but of course it is a little bit tough for me to go travel hundred miles every every hundred kilometres everyday and do my work  are you going to teach english after this course ? uh sometimes they my school utilises me oh in the absence of english teachers  sometimes they give a kind of uh what can you say the training to the teachers who are not good in grammar  at that time they'll call me to give to deal with one chapter  any chapter or any topic on grammar   anyhow it'll be helpful to you yes yes they will do it  had you been to any other state other than near andhra pradesh and tamil nadu and even now mysore i think uh only to madras only to madras only to madras not to any other state  uh no  do you stay in andhra for sometimes  sometimes when i was a child i was taken to that place  after that my grandma was old my mother passed away so we had no connection with those people  more than that almost all the people became very old at that time laughter so we had no connection after that  now you are the resident of  vellore tamil nadu tamil nadu that is vellore  tamil nadu  yes  how do you do in the vacation ? like summer vacation or winter vacation ? uh you may be getting more than three months i think  not three months  but used to coach the children  use to improve them  oh you know what the coaching facility is like yeah  in summer before i before i came i was teaching the students  sundays i took intensive classes for the entrance to twelfth standard  intensive  for those who are going to write that twelfth standard yeah we've to  twelfth standard  uhm i don't feel so we are left free  everytime we have some work to do   what do you do in pooja  vacation ?  pooja vacation also we used to conduct some classes practical classes  so they question us when these children fail  so many things are there oh all this schools are utilising the vacation to sometimes  even when they are teaching to the students or except  teaching to the students   yes yes  in pooja day some important days we stay back  some other days we have our own work  so we will we want to finish our syllabus so we run to school  or do the work now how do you find your life as a teacher ? yes i like i like it very much formally i was not liking it  but uh i i developed to a liking over it  now i like it very much  i like this  i like to be with the children  yeah really then so whenever i come to school there one or two words even to provide fun to us  laughter  yes when i am once when i am in the school i'll  not think about anything any type of uh  you forget all your worries all your laughs  yes yes  everything no worry there  when you look at the children yes  once we come out we'll come out with satisfaction  otherwise if we don't if i don't teach means i will be feeling very sad today i have not taught this others have done this well  uh so many things will be there anyhow you have to seen see your own yes definitely definitely performence in the class  yes yes  that's good  so i like this teaching also uh it's an i as i told in the class in the it is an a very good experience what we had in teaching practice how do manage your home and your service at the same time ? ha it was bit it was difficult only   it's even though how do you find it ? so i took it as a challenge yeah  uh i know very well that life is uh not smooth life is made up of a uh troubles  so if you want to accept do adjustment   adjustments and uh  you have to do adjustment ah yes i i remember one quoting quote  from nehru if you want to accept uh a full blown rose  we you have to accept the thorns behind it  oh laughter 