now you stand up ? tell me what is this ? bamboo  this ? uh cotton  sit down  how are these two things prepared ? by  with the help of what ? bamboo  bamboo isn't it ? and also with the help of the means of  means of production what is the means of production ? how they are prepared ?  bamboos with the help of bamboos as already told but how ? with the help of what ? teacher with machine machines  teacher no teacher with the help of hand   hands   with the help of hand hands     with the help of hand hands    and these ? teacher  these these with the help of what ? machines  so these things are prepared with the help of  machine machines and these with the help of hands  hands  now let us see to in today's   lesson how these this machine age started ? machine age started and then how this industrial revolution started ?  noise  so let us take up now this industrial revolution bb- work industrial revolution>  first of all let us study the meaning of industrial revolution meaning bb-work  there are you see just say as you study   the world history  man has passed through several stages isn't it ? in its economic growth he has passed through several stages  first he was a wanderer moving from one place to another place  then he started agricultural activities in then he started having so many other activities isn't it ? so that way why he he was engaging himself in one or the other kind of activities ?  revolution   in in order to progress in order to progress and in order to satisfy his needs  isn't it ? in the primitive stage he used to have only stones  only stones were at his disposal isn't it ? so he was using the stones and preparing instruments out of it  you know how he made fire as you know by friction and everything you know and the other weapons also he made out of stones and then in the agricultural stage he started making use of wood wooden plough and wooden instruments he started preparing  understood no ? so why he prepared all those things ? in order to satisfy his needs   needs  that was his prime necessity satisfying his needs was his prime necessity   needs  as the time passed his needs increased  there is a va vast difference between the needs of the man in the past and needs of the man in the present age  our present man man's needs are vast unlimited but whereas in the past they had only limited needs  as he has thinking capacity you know that man is an  a thinking animal with the help of his thinking capa  capacity he started finding out new things in   inventions and discoveries he started inventing new things and discovering new lands  and other things  so that way he progressed well  so in the eighteenth century in some parts of the world let us uh refer to those parts later on some parts of the world they started using this   these machines  they started preparing machines  new inventions and they are specially machines they started  you know that  you may be having a little idea about that  what type of machines and all were produced  but if you just said the meaning of the industry here industry means even prior to eighteenth century there were industries isn't it ? there were industries and they were producing so many things  one one example of the same kind this basket and this these steel cups   i have now here  cups  they used to prepare cups not of steel but of  bronze copper gold silver they used to prepare no  even that can also be called as industry  understood ? what i'm telling you are getting the point no ? yes teacher but yet this industrial revolution which started in the eighteenth century was completly different from that of the previous idea of industry   industry the meaning literal meaning if you just referred to the dictionary it will show you that  industry is nothing but making useful goods out of raw materials  whereas this industrial revolution is completely different  it increased the production  new inventions were made  it is the production was on a  large scale  not only that it changed the pattern of the society  way of life of the people was completely changed  understood no ?  you have studied the meaning of the revolution you know complete change in the way of life of the people   so in this industrial revolution changed the life of the people completely society itself was changed  did you understand ? that is the meaning of here industrial revolution  change in the means means  and in process of production  so now let this industrial revolution is uh not a sudden movement it didn't occur within a fortnight or within one  a month or within two months  it's gradual process  in the eighteenth century it started  in the eighteenth century it started and slowly  it spread all over the world  first it started in england then it spread to other parts even now also industrial revolution is not complete  in india and china the industrial revolution started in nineteenth century  whereas in african countries it has started just now  in some of the african countries it has started just now that means even now also the process of industrial revolution is going on it is not complete  some countries like england america and all no ? they have achieved full progress understood ? as far as industrial development is concerned  now next topic  factors favouring an industrial revolution  some eight points are there eight factors which generally favour an industrial revolution first one is growing demand for products bb-work  increasing trade and discovery of new markets  you know prior to industrial revolution  in the twentieth century only these two countries america  russia is disintegrated now u s s r is disintegrated  but we will talk about we can talk about   those russia and uh america   they they become poor i mean uh superpowers  but prior to that in sixteen seventy medieval period  britain was superpower like  you can't call it super though but it is was   the strongest politically stable country in the whole world  britain  and it had control ov over   several parts of the world it has had colonies no ? all over the world  our india was also one of the colony of the britishers  and they were successful in all these continent asia africa and european countries they acquired so many territories so many colonies were  under them they were powerful  so there the industrial revolution started first  as they were having colonies as well there was increasing demand for products  you know their colonial policy you know the britishers colonial policy  they didn't allow any industries or any progress to occur in a colonial state   that's why in the colonies there was increasing demand for products  finished product and as much usable goods  then increasing trade also as they had so many colonies they were having increase  increased trade also with the with those  colonies then discovery of new markets  they were not happy with whatever they were having   they were have going for more and more colonies  who are going for more and more colonies ? england   european country espece european countries especially britain   britain  then second factor that favoured the industrial revolution is  the need to change the productive process  prior to industrial revolution they used to prepare the goods with the help of hands  you know ? in order to prepare the small one small  basket they need needed more than one hour no  ? yes  but this type of sturdier ones cups  steel cups   they can be they can prepare or   we can manufacturing we can manufacture this type of cups more than thousands  they can produce with the help of machine isn't it ? so that way the wasting waste of time they were planning to have such a machine which produced more things within limited time  so that way what happened is need to change the productive process start  they wanted to change the product the means of production  next the third is discoveries and inventions  these discoveries you know the difference between discoveries and inventions ? i think so  can you tell me the what is the difference between the inventions and discoveries ? inventions means uh inventing a completely new thing and discovery means to discover uh a land to find out the land which is already existing no not known  known  it is already existing but unknown to the rest of the world that is discovery invention means ? it is no just like which what was not at all there there and it is found that is invented that we call as inventions   there   inventions  then next is sit down this discovery is you know in eighth standard you have studied about the geographical discovery so many lands were uh land routes and lands were found out by great sailors like vasco de-gama  megallan and so many other sailors you have studied all this  de-gama  and inventions for the invention is as far as inventions are concerned they found out new machines  that we are going to study in detail in the next chapter again  so that way discovery and inventions also should be there that also favours industrial revolution next fourth factor is capital needed for producing machines see in order to have a factory or a an  industry you need a lot of money not in thousands in  crores in lakhs and in crores  we need isn't it ? so that poor country too for the poor country it was not possible to accumulate that much money  so only a few countries like england were accumulating capital on large scale so that was capital capital means money that is  also one of the important factor that favoured the industrial revolution  next fifth one  an atmosphere conducive to the freedom of thought  if you are have one example i'll  give you if i just scold you and beat you and if i make you only whatever i am asking you you must learn i am whatever  i am dictating you that only you must write and only you that you think you have to study if i tell like that then i am curbing down your capacity to think you won't think then you will become only copycats  there is no work there is no opportunity for your uh uhm intelligence understood no ? to show your intelligence there is no scope only  so whereas if free atmosphere is given then you will come with new ideas no ? so that will lead you in some of the countries that is specially england there where it started first industrial revolution first statred first in england no ? they had free atmosphere that is democratic atmosphere they had   this democratic atmos because of this atmosphere they could think freely and they could find out new things and they could invent new machines and all that  sixth one is availability of coal and iron  in order to have industry we have two essential factors first one is iron then the second one   coal   iron   coal  with the help of iron you can make so many things machines and other articles you know and then steel can also be made with the with the help of iron  then coal coal is also equally essential  for what ? advani ? he is not attentive noise  i am asking you coal is also essential in industrial development how is it essential ? and how is it useful ? what is coal you know ?  kolsa  uhm what type of kolsa ?  dagadi   dagadi kolsa it is called as you know in  marathi   yes  yes ? yes use ? for producing thermal energy  for heating the iron iron  particles in  that is that is that means for generating n h thermal energy it is called as  so in order to run the machines power is essential no ? power is essential so that power is can be  obtained by heating the coal run with the help of the coal we can obtain the power to run the machines so that these two things were also available in england   let's have a skilled labour to handle a machine if you have visited any factories factory   you have visited any factory or uh industry  they have so many divisions like like uh   welding moulding dyeing they fitting this that so many you no ? so that way there will be so many departments like  to handle this each department they should be  have skilled labours who are having some technical know-how regarding that paticular department  that is essential  otherwise it will be like sambar daba  in one daba only all things are kept no  that way only one person only handling all the things that  means there is no excellence you won't expect any excellence in that  so for each ever whichever one field only for example if you take welding and you will become perfect in that particular field 