W2D001T
REPORT OF UDASA'S AD HOC COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO STUDY AND ADVISE ON THE "INSTITUTIONAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMME: UDSM 2000"
At its special meeting on 17th September, 1993 UDASA appointed an hoc committee of five members (with powers of co-option) to serve under the following terms of reference: -
1. To review the set of documents, collectively entitled: "Institutional Transformation Programme: UDSM 2000," which constitute an expression of the University administration's quest for instituting major changes in the structure, functions and size of the University of Dar es Salaam.
2. To review any other related material, especially the administration's proposals concerning the amendments to the University of Dar es Salaam Act, 1970.
3. To submit, within one month, a report which, if adopted by UDASA, would constitute the latter's contribution to the debate on the proposed reforms embodied in the "UDSM 2000" document.
The ad hoc committee consisted of the following members: 
1. Prof. <name/> Convener
2. Prof. <name/> Member
3. Dr <name/> Member
4. Prof. <name/> Member
5. Dr <name/> Member
6. Prof. <name/> Coopted Member
THE COMMITTEE'S REVIEW PROCESS 
After scrutinising the four documents on the "Institutional Transformation Programme" (Facts and Figures; Analyses, Studies, Reports, Reference Documentation; Corporate Strategic Plan; and Programme Outline, Report and Plan of Action), the committee took the view that, of the 4 documents, document C on the "Corporate Strategic Plan," constitutes the kernel of the whole initiative. The rest constitute either a background to or an elaboration of this key document. The committee therefore decided to base the thrust of its review on the Corporate Strategic Plan.
UDASA's committee also looked at the proposed amendments to the University Act based on the recommendations of the Masuha committee. Although UDSM 2000 is listed by the Masuha committee as one of the documents that they consulted, we were convinced that the proposed amendments to the Act bear no relation whatsoever to the radical initiatives embodied in the UDSM 2000 documents. The committee therefore found it unnecessary to make any comment of substance on the proposed amendments to the Act in relation to UDSM 2000.
THE COMMITTEE'S REPORT 
The committee wishes to recommend to UDASA the following Report for adoption as the organisation's contribution to the University community's deliberations on the "Institutional Transformation Programme: UDSM 2000."
0. 0 INTRODUCTION: 
0. 1 As a preface to our comments on the document entitled: "Institutional Transformation Programme, UDSM 2000," we would like to make a few general remarks. We commend the immense effort which has gone into producing the document and agree with a lot of the points made. It is also laudable that the administration, rather than elect to go it alone, has sought to involve the University community in a dialogue about the reform plans. However, we have a number of critical observations which we hope will constitute UDASA's contribution toward an improved version of the document. Our report concentrates more on those areas on which we disagree with the architects of UDSM 2000 than on issues to which we have no objection.
0.2 We share the concern that, as the University of Dar es Salaam moves towards the 21st century, it will be expected to plan and control its use of resources more vigorously than has hitherto been the case. The University will also be required over time to measure its performance against its stated objectives and/or expected outputs. Indeed, strategic planning is just a process of specifying or reaffirming corporate objectives and the means of accomplishing them.
0.3 Few would therefore deny that the University may need to undergo a process of reform, if not restructuring. Therefore the initiative to make changes with a view to improving the position of the UDSM, basing, among other things, on previous studies, is commendable. It is through such an exercise in self-examination that the University can be made more efficient, effective and responsive to the needs of society. Given the fact that more than twenty years have elapsed since the University has been in existence as an independent academic institution, the present initiative is probably timely.
0. 4 We would like to caution, however, that the restructuring of the UDSM must take into consideration its history and established traditions, as well as the country's conditions and the hopes and aspirations of the Tanzanian people regarding the role of their national University. It is true that the country is undergoing changes but one has to distinguish between the changes initiated by the Tanzanians themselves, and which accord with their aspirations, from those changes currently being pursued under external pressure. The former would be rooted in the society and the latter might change with the change of circumstances or at the whims of the political regime or even at the withdrawal of external support.
0.5 Before addressing the substance of the proposed programme, we would like to stress one important point. Although certain benefits accrue to individuals who graduate from institutions of higher learning, university education and scientific knowledge creation should not, strictly speaking, be treated as private goods to be sold in the market place. Like roads, sanitation or, indeed, national security, they are public goods requiring public funding. Universities, therefore, as instruments for education and scientific knowledge creation, serve not so much the individual citizens as the community as a whole. As instruments for the people, Universities ought to be accountable to them.
0.6 The document is presented in six parts (chapters) and we would like to comment on it along the same organisational lines, viz.: Institutional Process of Change; Mission into the 21st Century; Ownership, Authority and Governance; Administrative Structures; Inputs; and Outputs.
1.0 THE INSTITUTIONAL PROCESS OF CHANGE: TRANSFORMATION AND STRATEGIC PLAN 
1.1 The context of the review on the institutional process of change is based on the following assumptions (a) diminution or even withdrawal of state provision and financing of higher education (b) expansion of one University, i.e. UDSM, and (c) economic liberalisation and market driven provision of university education. The first assumption discounts an important historical fact that, whether one is looking at the modern capitalist states or, indeed, the countries of late capitalism, (the so-called Asian Tigers), state intervention, not only in economic management but also in education and research, largely accounts for their success. The second assumption rules out possibilities of competition with other universities, for example SUA, for the same services, clients, resources, markets and shareholders. We submit that the recommendations of the task force on "The Tanzanian Education System for the 21st Century" regarding increase in enrolment of university students did not envisage expansion only at the University of Dar es Salaam. The third assumption is premised on the wrong argument that, if a product cannot compete in the market place, it has no utility value to society.
1.2 The corporate University for profit concept replacing a free, democratically controlled University, open to all the citizens, will result into a University system of education that caters for an elite who can afford to pay at the expenses of a socially provided University education accessible for all. On the other hand, preoccupation with market driven services will result in the growth of differentiated demand which would favour high status and high private returns fields of study like law, engineering, medicine and commerce.
1.3 The major vision and purpose of the document should be to define movement towards an entrepreneurial and intrapreneurial university, rather than a corporate university, and then proceed to describe the new profile of the UDSM, bearing in mind the questions: What is our mission, and what strategy will be adopted in order to meet the intended goals?
1.4 The three immediate objectives given at page 5 are not quite followed through in the document. Indeed, the pressing issues which need to be addressed by a sensible micro-strategic plan are: governance, quality, relevance, equity, sources of financing, and efficient use of resources. Yet these issues are given scanty treatment without a clear articulation of their operationalisation. Once again what is missing is the clarity in the direction to which all corporate mobility should cumulate. Of course, we are not given an overview of the plans of the six faculties and the way the latter intend to integrate the institutional profile into their faculty development plans.
1.5 In a corporate strategic plan one would have liked to see a mention of the strategic instruments to be adopted, i.e. Organisation, Budget, Entrepreneurial dimension, Intrapreneurial dimension, Performance standards, Performance measurement. These are neither defined nor developed. Thus it is very difficult to judge how efficiency and effectiveness will be attained. For example, by implication of a corporate setting, the document wants, apart form practically oriented education and highly qualified research and consultancy, to develop activities which, unfortunately, do not fit in the traditional setting of a university, being corporately organized according to public law, but which can be realised in a structure according to civic law. A certain measure of independence is implied: but does this mean abandoning university tasks towards a private company or a private enterprise closely related the University in order to be able to fulfil new tasks as spin-offs of the regular university tasks?
1.6 Some specific comments on the institutional process of change:-
(a) The grounds for disputing the staff-student ratios quoted at p.4 are legitimate. The figures misrepresent the work-load of the academic staff. Apart from the fact that the ratios include those on training and on leave of absence, they ignore a number of important variables, for example, unfilled posts, number of courses taught, backwardness of the teaching technology, and non-use of graduate teaching assistants as is the case, for example, the North American universities. From a technical point of view it is inappropriate to base the ratios on head counts, as the document does. We propose that, in future strategic planning exercises, efforts should be made to compute the Full Time Equivalents (FTEs) ratios. Indeed the facts and figures as given in Issue No.2 cannot serve a meaningful planning exercise as several indicators of efficiency and effectiveness are not given. These should include: unit costs per faculty/field of study; shares of budget for research/teaching/administration/support services; research output per staff member; retention rates, dropout rates; and duration of study in student years
(b) The Corporate Strategic Plan's target scenario for a final overall student *enrollment> of some 8,000-12,000, to be reached by the year 2,000 is unrealistic unless there are drastic changes in the internal efficiency of the institution. Under the present and foreseeable circumstances, such changes cannot be envisaged. We doubt if enough resources could be garnered to expand the University's physical plant and other facilities to a level that would support the planned increase in enrolment. Given the current classroom utilisation frequency and pressure on such resources as the library, the laboratories and other teaching facilities, one cannot but express a sense of pessimism concerning the prospects of substantially increased enrolment. Anxiety is already being expressed, for example, regarding the effects of the recent increased intake in the Faculty of Engineering. Also, the backwardness of the teaching technology employed may necessitate recruitment of additional academic staff beyond what is attainable during the period in question.
2.0 MISSION INTO THE 21ST CENTURY 
2.1 Without wishing to underplay the significance of the other sections of the document, section two is probably the most critical component of what is envisaged in the Plan. This is the part which ought to define the direction of the reform programme in its general and specific outlines. It is from that defined direction that all the administrative setups or the academic objectives will have to converge. Failing to do this, the exercise will be without purpose and is likely to produce unintended results.
2.2 The section attempts to present the direction in terms of what is called: "Mission into the 21st Century." In its broad sense therefore, the direction is defined in terms of a Calendar , the 21st century. It is not unusual for society to see its progress in terms of annual or epochal accomplishments. In fact, a plan should define a time perspective. What is lacking in this general definition of the mission, however, is a characterization of the constituents of the 21st century of the University of Dar es Salaam. What kind of cosmos, for example, is envisaged during the 21st century, and what place does the University of Dar es Salaam have in realising that vision? What are these images, aspirations and ideals that can be realised as at 2,000 or beyond? 
W2D002T
INSTRUCTIONS TO BIDDERS FOR SUPPLY OF CRUDE OIL FOR 1996
RE: TENDER FOR THE SUPPLY OF CRUDE OIL 1996
1.0 Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) of P.O. Box 2774 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, Herein called the buyer, wish to invite tenders for the supply of crude oil requirements for 1996 as specified below.
2.0 This invitation to bid is open to all oil companies currently operating in Tanzania, oil suppliers and registered oil trading firms.
3.0 There will be one supplier for the 1996 requirements
4.0 Quantity
Quantity to be delivered will be a minimum 560,000 metric tons in lots of 80,000 to 100,000 metric tons. However the exact quantity will depend on the production capacity of Tiper refinery during the year. Unsupplied balances will not be carried forward to following year. Buyer may however place cargo sizes of less than 80,000 mt.
5.0 Quality
Crude oils to be imported shall be Arabian light and Iranian light only. type of crude to be delivered from the two will be at buyer's option, tentatively 360,000 mt will be Iranian light and 200.000 mt Arabian light.
Basic specifications  fro><+_for> Iranian light and Arabian light crudes to be supplied under the contract:
6.0 Delivery
An order for delivery will be placed (30) thirty days prior to loading date indicating crude type, arrival date, and quantity desired. Delivery will be in cargo lots of between 80,000 and 100,000 metric tons. Cargoes must arrive within the delivery date range to be advised by buyer at the time of placing order. The buyer can change the delivery date range provided such notice is communicated to seller within (4) fourteen days before loading date. A penalty of U.S. $20,000 per day shall levied for late arrival of vessel beyond required date range. Notice of readiness shall only be accepted within SBM/SPM berthing hours ie: 0700 to 1400 hours.
7.0 Nomination
After  advise><+_advice> of a Delivery order, seller will make nomination giving name and particulars of nominated vessel. During the nomination seller will indicate source of supply, loading port, and loading date range.
The seller's nomination must be within highest Lloyd's class fit in all aspects to accomplish the voyage to discharging port. At any rate vessel should not be more than 10 years old. Within (03)
Three working days after receipt of nomination buyer will accept or reject this nomination giving reasons for any such rejection. Within three days (03) after receipt of order supplier should send proforma invoice for the cargo, indicating FOB price/BBL, freight rate per BBL. Proforma must be on suppliers headed paper and countersigned by suppliers.
8.0 Loading particulars
Seller will advise buyer within (24) twenty four hours of completion of loading, the quality and quantity of crude loaded, port of loading and expected time of arrival at discharge port. Buyer will not be responsible for vessels arriving earlier than the delivery date range.
9.0 Dar es Salaam port restrictions at SBM/SPM
10.0 Price
Delivery terms shall be cost plus freight basis
(a) FOB spot price quoted daily on Platts Oilgram Publications in the section dealing with crude assessment based on Dubai crude for the first month of quotation plus/minus a premium/discount per barrel for Arabian light and Iranian light crude i.e.
Tenders to indicate premium/discount, element for each of the two crude types. The premium/discount to be quoted must be a fixed number and should not be indexed. Only spot price of Dubai should be variable. No other publication or reference point shall be acceptable.
Tenders are required to indicate the premium/discount factor separately for each type of crude and for LR1 and LR2. (LR1 for cargoes of less than 80,000mt) No other variation to the above shall be acceptable.
Note:
Dubai spot price quotation shall be equal to the average of five quotations around bill of  lading><+_loading> date as published in Platts Oilgram in the "spot assessment" section. (i.e. two quotations before, two quotations after B/L date quotation); other pricing basis shall not be accepted.
Freight:
The seller must indicate freight formula based on world scale AFRA for tanker size and LR1 and LR2.
The formula to be used shall be fixed as follows:-
Worldscale actual voyage is limited to Arabian Gulf and South Africa ports. Tenderers are only required to quote for freight factor "f" in the formula above which will be fixed for the year 1996.
Indexation of the factor is not allowed.
Fixed freight without following the above formula will not be allowed. Suez Canal charges shall not be accepted.
11.0 Bid security:
All bids should be accompanied by a bid security of us $2 (two) million and must be delivered together with tender. The bid security shall be in a form of bank guarantee issued by first class international bank in the form in appendix, valid for 30 days beyond the bid validity date. Unsuccessful bidder's bid security will be returned but not later than 30 days after expiration of bid security.
12.0 Payment
Payment will be made by a confirmed irrevocable letter of credit (LC) in a standard format as per appendix. LC shall be opened by the National Bank of Commerce and confirmed by a first class international bank. The LC shall be opened prior to delivery date range. LC confirmation and bank charges outside Tanzania will be on seller's account. Bank charges inside Tanzania shall be on TPDC account. LC amendments requested outside buyer's cause, shall be paid for by seller by reimbursing the actual cost per prevailing national bank of commerce rates. Seller's LC special conditions may be submitted as attachment to the tender offer. Only NBC accepted special conditions shall form a standard LC format to be opened for each cargo for the contract period.
Payment shall be made only against presentation of complete shipping documents which fully meet LC conditions.
The shipping documents shall include:
seller's invoice - quoting dates around B/L
indicating separate values for;
FOB, premium/discount and freight.
bill of landing - in mt, litres and barrels in vacuum
invoicing shall be in mt.
certificates of quality, quantity and origin
ullage report
freight memo
master's receipt for samples and copy documents
inspector's report - clean report of findings (CRF)
any other documents agreed by buyer and seller.
Other charges if any, should be included in premium/discount element in the price clause in article 10
13.0 Insurance
The buyer will arrange insurance cover for delivery quantity at its own cost. Buyer warrants that its insurance contracts covers contamination risk, shortages beyond 05 percent, war risk total loss and other risks which may harm seller. In order to provide insurance cover in time seller must notify buyer tentative delivery quantity, loading port, and estimated value (05) five days before loading date. Failure to timely advise nominations and loading particulars for insurance purpose, supplier will be full responsible for transit risks.
14.0 Laytime and demurrage
Laytime shall be forty two hours plus 6 hours from notice of readiness (NOR). NOR to be tendered only when vessel arrives at Dar es salaam port before 12.00 hours.NOR for vessels arriving after this time will start counting at 06.00 hours on the following date. The supplier is required to indicate demurrage rates applicable after laytime.
15. Performance bond
Within 30 days of the receipt on notification of award from the buyer, the successful bidder shall furnish a performance bond in the form of a bank guarantee issued by first class international bank for an amount of $5 million as per appendix b valid up to 31/12/96. Failure of the successful bidder to comply with this requirement shall constitute sufficient grounds for the annulment of the award and forfeiture of the bid security, in which even the buyer may make the award to the next best valuated bidder.
16.0 Risk and title
Risk and title on product shall pass from seller to buyers as the oil passes the vessel's permanent hose connection at the port of loading
17.0 Pollution liability
Seller shall ensure that any of its nominated and accepted vessels shall be a member of TOVALOP (tanker owners voluntary agreement) concerning liability for oil pollution at discharge port.
Seller shall also ensure that cargoes being loaded are covered by CRISTAL (contract regarding an item supplement to tanker liability for oil pollution) or equivalent insurance.
18.0 Duties and charges
Buyer shall pay all duties at discharge port in Dar es Salaam
19.0 Quality and quantity inspection:
Buyer shall engage an independent inspector at discharge port through tendering process. The cost of inspection at discharge port shall be shared 50 per cent each by buyer and seller.
20.0 Force majeure
A) Neither seller nor buyer shall be responsible for any failure to <AmE/>fulfill their obligations under the contract to be executed if <AmE/>fulfillment has been prevented, delayed, hindered or curtailed by:
(i) any circumstance whatsoever which is beyond the reasonable control of seller or buyer, as the case may be, or
(ii) compliance with any order, demand or request of any government or of any international, national, port, transportation, local or other authortity or agency.
(iii) any strike, blockage, labour dispute, damage of receiving facilities, or refinery. The party seeking relief under A) i) - iii) shall advise the other party as soon as practicable of the circumstances causing to fulfil its obligations and shall thereafter provide progress report regarding cessation of 
Those circumstances. performance of obligations under the circumstance shall be resumed as soon as reasonably possible. Unless otherwise agreed, all oil, the timely delivery or receipt of which does not take place under the circumstances shall be deducted from the volume of the oil required to be delivered and received under the contract.
21.0 Governing law
The contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Tanzania.
22.0 Arbitration
In the event of dispute, the parties shall try to resolve the issue amicably. Should this mode fail, each party shall appoint an arbitrator and the arbitrators so appointed shall be final and binding, on both parties. The arbitration proceedings shall be carried out in the English language in London and will be in accordance with I.C.C. rules in force.
23.0 Company profile
Tenders are required to provide all necessary information about their companies, such information should include but not limited to:
annual reports for 1993 and 1994
major activities and customers for last two years for verification of performance
at least two first class international bank references.
24.0 *Partishipement> and transhipment
*Partshipement> and transhipment are prohibited.
25.0 Reference to previous tender
Tenders are not allowed to refer terms of previous contracts with TPDC All clauses  refered><+_referred> in this tender must be addressed to by tenderers. ambiguous and option offers shall be disqualified.
26.0 Special condition
 Sellers><+_Sellers'> special conditions should be given explicitly when submitting their offers. In addition to the detailed offer which be submitted, tenderers will be required to fill in a summary form attached to this tender.
27.0 Training
Tenderers should include a training fund of us $50,000 to train TPDC and Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals staff in the oil supply, transport and related operations.
28.0 Transmission of quotations
Sealed quotations clearly marked "Tender for supply of crude oil 1996" should be deposited in the tender box located at 4th floor, cooperative building, Lumumba street, Dar es salaam. Quotations should be addressed to: Managing Director, Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation, P.O.Box 2774 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Quotations may also be sent by courier services but must be received in time. Telex and fax offers shall not be acceptable.
29.0 Draft agreement (supply contract)
A copy of the draft agreement will be available for collection at TPDC. A non refundable fee of shillings twenty thousand (TShs. 20,000/=) will be charged. The successful bidder will be required to sign the said agreement as soon as notification is given on award of the tender 
30.0 Tender closing date
Tender closing date shall be on 2nd November, 1995 at 10.00 hours local time.
31.0 Bid validity
Bids should be valid for 45 days from the date of bid opening, No bid may be withdrawn in the interval between the deadline for submission of bids and the expiration of the period of the bid validity. Withdrawal of bids during this interval will result in forfeiture of bidder's bid security.

W2D003T
Suspension of Undergraduate Programme
1. As per our previous correspondence Council suspended undergraduate programmes indefinitely.
2. Council also empowered the Vice Chancellor to investigate the sources of the crisis and to take appropriate action. This exercise will require some weeks to complete.
3. It is also crucial that the undergraduate programmes resume in a time frame that will not extend to next academic year.
4. Attached are  managements><+_management's> suggestions of possible rescheduling of the academic year in two scenarios.
5. In scenario 1 please note the following:-
(a) The vacations are reduced to 2 and 1 week for all faculties and Science respectively.
(b) The long vacation is also reduced significantly.
6. In scenario 2:-
(a) Vacations are reduced to 2 and 1 week for all faculties and Science respectively (instead of 3 and 2).
(b) Practical training and Teaching practice is reduced to 6 weeks (instead of 8)
(c) The long vacation is also reduced significantly.
7. This is to request your faculty to study the suggestions and:-
(a) Suggest other scenarios, if any.
(b) Study and inform on implications of all scenarios to the smooth running of academic programmes. These should include time-tabling, financial, administrative and any other.
8. You are kindly requested to submit information on no. 7 above for tabling at a special Committee of Deans meeting to be held on Wednesday 9th November, in the afternoon.
Thanking you for your urgent assistance in this important task. 
An "In-County Training Scheme" and a "Local Expertise Support Scheme" have been successfully deployed for the past 4 years at the Faculty of Engineering in an "institutional transformation" of the Faculty, receiving external support from Switzerland and Germany.
The University management is currently negotiating with various parties on support and cooperation in the recently launched Institutional Transformation Program "UDSM 2000". Given current working realities at the University we have tabled the two Faculty of Engineering Schemes as possible modes of operation for the effective implementation of various task forces, programs of action, training programs, personnel restructuring etc.. We have found a positive response as the schemes allow for performance based remuneration for special assignments and programs but do not establish some kind of regular topping-up payments.
The Program Management Unit (PMU) has thus been requested to review the scheme with a view to adapt them to the special conditions of the program activities ahead under the "UDSM 2000" approach.
You are herewith requested to
study the two scheme outlines and discuss with your staff incl. non-academic staff,
give your feed-back, propose amendments, and/or alterations
communicate your feed-back directly to
You may provide your feed-back by returning the outlines with your hand-written notes. You are urged to involve Heads of Departments and/or senior staff as you feel appropriate. Multiple copies are provided to facilitate the exercise. 

THE 1993/94 ACADEMIC YEAR
This is to bring to your attention the 1993/94 Academic Year starts on 27th September, 1993.
Attention is also drawn to the following:-
(a) A new registration procedure whereby all students are expected to register centrally at the Admission Office before registering at the Faculties.
(b) Registration for all years of study closes on 8th October, 1993 i.e. two weeks after opening for 1st years and one week for continuing students. This is to allow the University to fill in time vacant places in first year and to allow the academic year to start on time.
An appeal is hereby made to you to ensure that registration procedures are handled adequately during these two weeks.
We have also received complaints from the student government that a considerably number of staff do not turn up for teaching in the first weeks of the academic year as result of which classes are left unattended. It was argued that this encourages students to report late at the beginning of the year. You are kindly requested to ensure that all classes start in time i.e. on the week beginning on 4th October, 1993.
As you are all aware, once again, the financial situation of the University is not promising. While efforts are continuing to improve the situation, we need to be prepared for difficult times ahead. It is our hope that we shall continue with the spirit shown in the 1992/93 academic year of cooperating in pointing out and suggesting solutions in advance so as to avoid adverse effects on our academic programmes.
Wishing you, and all staff, a fruitful and academically gratifying 1993/94 academic year. 
UDSM Draft Corporation Plan
With reference to your letter of 14th September 1993, I would like to express the opinion that the time given for discussion at department level is much too short. The document has only just started to circulate among members, and they will need some time to think about it before any fruitful discussion can take place.
The Department had already planned to hold a special meeting just for this issue, but a more realistic date would be towards the beginning of the term. We were assured at the last meeting on the Plan, to which Heads of Departments were invited, that we would be given ample time to hold discussions.
May I request that the Heads of Department meeting be postponed to a much later date. 
Re: UDSM DRAFT CORPORATE STRATEGIC PLAN
You are being requested to hold special departmental meetings some time between 14 -17th September to discuss the current draft on the University of Dar es Salaam Strategic Plan. A Heads of Departments Meeting will be held early next week to synthesize the various departmental views. The ultimate aim is to provide the Faculty with the relevant inputs for onward transmission to the Management Programme Unit. 
AMENDMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF DAR ES SALAAM ACT, 1970
Recognizing the apparent inadequacy of the University of Dar es Salaam Act, 1970 ("the University Act") in the light of local, regional and global economic, political and social changes, the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education ("the Ministry") invited the University of Dar es Salaam ("the University") to review the University Act and propose such amendments as would enable that Act to accommodate the changes aforesaid.
In response to the Ministry's invitation, the University appointed a Task Force which submitted its Report on 13th July, 1993.
The University is now inviting the entire University community to *perticipate> in this important exercise by proposing such amendments as would render the enclosed Draft University Act more viable. Suffice it to say that "amendment" includes addition, modification and even deletion. In making such proposals, regard should be had to:-
1. Governance, autonomy, power mission and accountability of the University;
2. The propriety of making the University a limited liability company;
3. The desirability of disestablishing the office of Secretary to Council OR the replacement thereof with a Corporation Secretary;
4. The desirability of appointment of Deans of Faculties and Directors of Institutes by the Chancellor; and
5. A fair but effective disciplinary machinery for both staff and students of the University.
In order to expedite review of your proposals by the Task Force, we should be grateful if you would adopt the format set out in Annexure "A" hereto.
Responses should reach the secretariat by 27th December, 1993. 
Re: Student Baraza
I have received, with thanks, your note Ref. DARUSO/SG/Vol. II/34 date 30/10/93, reporting on the Student Baraza that was conducted on Saturday 30/10/93.
I also acknowledge receipt of the proceedings of the said Baraza, attached to the note.
Let me draw your attention to the "Resolution" appearing on page 3 of the Proceedings, concerning meeting again on Thursday (presumably Thursday 4/10/93?).
I wish to let you know that all major University business is conducted according to planned schedules so as to avoid undue interference with other activities and to allow for a smooth running of various events.. That is why the University publishes a Prospectus and Almanac to guide University business.
I should therefore ask you to study the 1993/94 Almanac in order to locate the date of your next Baraza, where you can continue the business you may have left unfinished. By this logic, therefore, no permission will be given and no permission is hereafter given for DARUSO to hold a Student Baraza outside the prescribed dates in the Almanac. We have to respect and give due weight to other University activities and programmes of the day. 
Re: DISPOSAL OF OLD MOTOR VEHICLES
It has come to our notice that a number of old motor vehicles lie scattered all over the Campus. Some are permanently parked *infornt> of residential houses. The impression a visitor to the University gets is that the University:-
either has no understandable system of disposing of old motor vehicles;
or
is unwilling to part with old motor vehicles;
or
does not care about recovering whatever value the vehicle still have.
The purpose of this letter therefore is to request all those who have such vehicles to surrender them to us so that arrangements can be made to have them auctioned. The proceeds will be, as approved by Council, credited to the Department or Faculty concerned.
Please, let us not turn any part of our beautiful campus into a scrapyard! 
Amendments to the University of Dar es Salaam Act
The Task Force appointed by the University to review the University Act has submitted their report. They are now soliciting the views of all members of the University Community on this report, and the suggested amendments. Only one copy of this is available in the Department. The deadline for submitting comments is December 27th.
I am therefore suggesting that members collect the report from Room 7, sign for it, and return it the following day. This will allow other members to see it, since members will only fetch the report if they know they will have the time to read it.
This is a very important document, and I would urge all members to read it and make their contribution to the future of the University.
Please send your comments directly to the Secretariat of the Committee.
Operational policy and procedures on local expertise support scheme 
1. Scope
The Faculty of Engineering (FoE) is expected to provide academic and professional leadership in the field of engineering and technology. To assume such role requires the potentials of the institution and the abilities of all staff to be developed and to be developed further.
The LOCAL EXPERTISE SUPPORT SCHEME shall contribute to deployment of potentials and abilities, where necessary supplemented by local expertise employed from outside the faculty, and shall thus help the Faculty assume its expected role.
The LOCAL EXPERTISE SUPPORT SCHEME SUPPORTS
(a) short-term full-time visiting staff/consultants for period of up to 3 month to contribute to teaching of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses, PDP and research and development activities,
(b) as under (a) but on part-time basis,
(c) specialized know-how e.g. in educational and general planning and management, organization of maintenance, review of facilities, etc.,
(d) know-how and skills for special works to be performed in support and complementary to above kinds of expertise, e.g. preparation of respective materials, repair and service works, etc.,
(e) contractual employment (for periods longer than 3 month) of supporting technical and administrative staff for special assignments of foreseeable limited duration where either certain work will be completed within such period or a permanent post will be established,
(f) membership in technical committees, national advisory bodies etc.,
(g) preparation of special educational material, technical and scientific reports and documentation for both FoE internal and general public purposes, as characterized in 2 (c) above,
(h) in house contracts to carry out research work,
(i) in house contracts to undertake special tasks which would otherwise require external expertise/consultants.
Objectives
The LOCAL EXPERTISE SUPPORT SCHEME pursues the objectives to:
(a) promote and mobilize expertise which the faculty requires to perform and mobilize expertise with which the faculty requires to perform its tasks adequately, but which is not available within the FoE,
(b) promote and mobilize expertise with which the faculty requires to perform its task adequately, which can be provided by its members of staff, but the deployment of which does not fall under the normal duties,
(c) promote and mobilize expertise within the faculty for services and products of national/public interest, not remunerated adequately and therefore deserving promotion,
(d) contribute positively to motivation and retention of Tanzanian staff on the job,
(e) foster contacts and cooperation with local professionals in various fields.
The scheme helps developing local expertise outside the FoE and transferring more external funds to the recipient country.
3. Policy
Faculty policy on Local Expertise Scheme stand as follows:
(a) Local expertise support scheme shall be a permanent feature at the FoE.
(b) The source of funding shall be from public sources, donors, industries as well as faculty's own income.
(c) External donors or sponsors may set priorities, criteria and guideline for the use of their respective contributions but these should be within accepted concepts, frameworks and rates.
(d) All FoE staff is eligible to local expertise support scheme.
(e) In principle the scheme should only be used on the basis of on the job commitment and performance ensuring that both the candidates and the faculty's needs and interests are reasonably considered.
(f) Where expertise is sought from outside the faculty due to lack of similar expertise in house, these will be remunerated at negotiated rates but not above market rates.
(g) The scheme shall apply on in-house and external contracts to undertake activity within the scope of this scheme.
(h) During the period when office holders have no supporting administrative staff the scheme will be used to provide financial package under "local expertise support for senior management" functions (- see procedure attached).

W2D004T
A Guide for diplomatic missions
1. ARRIVAL FORMALITIES
(i) (a) Heads of mission arriving to take position in Tanzania, for the first time are met at the airport by a representative of the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Missions should therefore give adequate notice of the arrival of a new head of mission to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to enable the Protocol Division facilitate immigration formalities.
(b) Non-resident Ambassadors accredited to the United Republic of Tanzania, arriving to present credentials, are *similary> met at the airport by a representative of the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, the Protocol Division provides transport and can, upon request, assist in making hotel reservations for such envoys. On all other visits non-resident Ambassadors are expected to make their own transport and *accomodation> arrangements. The Ministry's role is limited to facilitating the appointments of the envoys with senior government leaders only .
(c) Missions are expected to make arrangements for the reception of other members of staff arriving in Tanzania.
(ii) Members of staff of missions together with their families and households are exempted from registering as aliens and from applying for residence permits before arriving in Tanzania. Missions are nonetheless reminded that this exemption does not extend to visa requirements. Missions should as far as is practicable, advise incoming staff to get entry visas, before departure. Residence permits are issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after arrival. Missions should route applications for residence permits through the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Once issued, residence permits are valid for a period of two years, and have to be renewed thereafter. 
(iii) State guests, including Heads of State and Government together with their delegations, special envoys, representatives of donor nations arriving for negotiations, experts and consultants invited by the government as well as staff of missions and their families are exempted from changing USD 50 or the equivalent, in convertible currency at the point of entry. Nonetheless this exemption does not extend to cover members of families accompanying representatives of donor nations coming to negotiate agreements or those who accompany experts and consultants invited into the country for specific negotiations. Missions should note however that the amount of money to be changed at the point of entry is subject to change from time to time.
(iv) Missions, are required to communicate to the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the arrival of any new member of staff, together with his/her name, and rank, and where applicable, the name of the spouse and dependants accompanying him/her.
(v) The Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs arranges for the issuance of identity cards for members of mission after arrival. There are three types of identity cards issued, namely the blue card for diplomatic staff and certain categories of officials of international organisations, the red card issued to consular officers and the green card issued to non-diplomatic personnel. In case of replacement of personnel, no identity card will be issued to the incoming staff, before the surrender of the identity card of the departing staff. The Ministry also arranges to have the names of new members of missions published in the Official Gazette as well as in the list of Diplomatic and Consular missions, Trade and International Organisations, which is published twice a year. Alterations in the rank of mission personnel as well as any other changes should be notified to the Chief of Protocol for effecting amendments to the diplomatic list.
2. AIRPORT PASSES
Apart from the identity card, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs also arranges for two airport passes to be issued for the use of the head of mission and his or her spouse. An additional floating pass is issued for general use by missions for official purposes. This pass is intended to be used in conjunction with the pass holders' own identity card. Airport passes give the holder access to the VIP lounge as well as to the transit, arrival and departure lounges. Airport passes must be produced whenever requested by airport authorities, whilst in the premises of the airport. On no account should airport passes be used by mission personnel for purchases from airport duty-free shops if not travelling. Applications for these passes should be addressed to the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
3. USE OF THE VIP LOUNGE
(i) Missions are reminded that the use of the VIP lounge is strictly restricted to personal use by heads of mission and members of their families. With the exception of first arrival and final departure at the end of a tour of duty, when a head of mission is expected to be welcomed and seen-off by the staff of his mission and colleagues in the diplomatic corps, at all other times, heads of mission are expected to be escorted by not more than one person when travelling. In cases of first arrival and final departure, missions are required to give reasonable notice of their intention to use the VIP lounge to the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(ii) Heads of mission are expected to seek prior authorisation of the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whenever they require to use the VIP lounge to receive any visitors or guests who are not members of their families including official delegations. Heads of mission are requested to ensure scrupulous compliance with this requirement.
4. DIPLOMATIC BAGS
Diplomatic bags should be sealed and clearly marked for ease of identification. Unaccompanied bags should be collected by a duly authorised representative of the mission at the cargo section of the airport, while couriers should be met at the arrival lounge. In no circumstance should couriers be met in the VIP lounge. Missions are advised to get in touch directly with the airport authorities in advance of the arrival of couriers in order to facilitate their reception and to avoid inconveniences.
5. LOCALLY ENGAGED STAFF
The Government of the United Republic of Tanzania respects the right of missions to freely appoint members of staff of their missions. However, in those cases where a mission wishes to employ a non-Tanzanian national as a local staff, the mission, has to comply with Tanzanian Law regulating the employment of foreigners. Local staff personnel are governed by Tanzanian Law, and regardless of nationality, are not entitled to duty free purchases, privileges and immunities. Furthermore missions or mission personnel who bring in local staff personnel from outside Tanzania, must ensure that such personnel leave Tanzania at the end of their contracts of service. 
(ii) Missions may wish to consider utilising the services of the Tanzanian Police Force to check on the past records of any prospective employee whom a mission is contemplating to recruit. Missions desiring such services, should channel their requests through the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(iii) Missions are expected to notify the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the engagement and discharge of local staff.
6. DEPENDANTS NOT TO UNDERTAKE REMUNERATIVE WORK
As a general rule, dependants of members of diplomatic missions are not allowed to undertake remunerative work in Tanzania. In exceptional cases, the Ministry might consider allowing a dependant of a diplomatic agent or consular officer to undertake remunerative work. In such a case, the person concerned shall cease to be considered as a dependant for the duration of his/her employment. Applications for such permits should be made to the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
7. EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXATION
The exemptions from taxation to which missions and their personnel are entitled to are set out in parts I, II, III and IV of the Fourth Schedule to the Diplomatic and Consular Immunities and Privileges Act (No. 5 of 1986). Additional exemptions are granted under the Immunities and Privileges (Taxes and Duties) Order, GN 120 of 1975 issued on the 12 June, 1975. The following exemptions are granted under these two pieces of legislation, as well as in other legislation. 
(i) Missions are exempt from all direct taxes in respect of their premises. This includes exemption from:
(a) Capital gains tax
(b) Stamp duty and registration fees under the Land Ordinance of 1923, for registration of leases
(c) Fees payable to the Registrar of Titles for issue of titles.
(ii) Missions are exempted from duties and taxes charged on the importation of goods or those purchased locally for official use by missions.
(iii) (a) Missions together with members of missions are exempted from payment of motor vehicles registration fees and road licences. Exemption is granted upon application to the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, all missions are required to pay the road toll.
(b) Members of missions having valid international driving licences as well as licences issued by Commonwealth countries are exempt from the requirement of having to do and pass a driving test. However members of missions who do not hold a recognised licence must do and pass a driving test. Exemption is similarly granted on application through the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
(iv) Missions and their privileged staff are exempted from <AmE/>licencing their television sets and video cassette recorders. Nonetheless missions and their personnel are required to register these items with the Commissioner for Customs and Sales Tax. Registration is effected upon payment of a nominal fee on importation.
v) Members of missions are exempted under the Income Tax Act of 1973 from paying income tax in respect of their emoluments. This exemption also extends to members of the service staff and domestic servants of heads of mission provided they are not Tanzanians nor permanent residents of Tanzania. 
(vi) Members of mission are also exempt from the payment of all Arms licence fees under the Arms and Ammunition Ordinance, Cap 223 of the Law of Tanzania.
(vii) Non resident Ambassadors accredited to the United Republic of Tanzania and residing in Kenya are exempt from paying foreign vehicles registration fees. However such envoys like other heads of mission and mission staff are required to pay road tolls.
(viii) Representational staff of diplomatic missions together with Representatives of International Organisations and their Deputies in Tanzania are entitled to immunity from customs duties, sales tax and excise duty on goods of foreign origin imported into the country for the personal use of such officer and his/her family. However other officials of International Organisations are exempted from payment of customs duties, sales tax and excise duty for personal effects, including one motor vehicle, imported within twelve months of first arrival into the country.
(ix) Tanzanian citizens working in International Organizations as Directors or Deputy Directors are exempt, under Section 15 of Act No. 5 of 1986, from personal tax and income tax in respect of emoluments received as officials of such Organisations .
(x) Tanzanian citizens employed in International Organisations in the professional category as officers or advisers are exempted under Section 15 (b) of Act No. 5 of 1986 from payment of customs duty.
(xi) The rest of Tanzanian citizens working in International Organisations are supposed to pay income tax only in respect of a part of the salary, equivalent to the salary earned by the employee before being employed by the International Organisation, under Section 16(b) of Act No. 5 of 1986.
8. FINANCIAL MATTERS AND REGULATIONS
The Ministry wishes to draw the attention of missions to the existence of the Exchange Control Regulations issued by the Bank of Tanzania, applicable to diplomatic missions, and their officials, residing in Tanzania. Missions are requested to encourage their officials to acquaint themselves with these regulations. The following provisions apply:
(i) Travel Outside Tanzania
Non-Tanzanian personnel of diplomatic missions and the members of their families can undertake travel to and from Tanzania by any airline or shipping line freely against payment of foreign convertible currency out of their external accounts maintained with an authorised dealer. Missions should note that their staff are not exempted from payment of airport service charges when travelling.
(ii) Imports
Within the limits set out hereunder, diplomatic missions and their non-Tanzanian personnel are required to fill in PRO 6 forms available from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to obtain import licences from the Import <AmE/>/Licencing Directorate of the Bank of Tanzania for all imports from abroad for their bona fide use. Licences are issued liberally and expeditiously on receipt of applications on the prescribed form against payment of a fee.
Payments for these imports, including freight charges and insurance premium should be made out of external accounts in foreign currency. Such imports are free of customs duty, sales tax and excise duty. However, the exemption of consular posts headed by Honorary Consuls undertaking gainful private occupation from duty, is limited to office stationery, furniture and equipment, imported at the instance of the sending state.
(a) In effecting duty free purchases, entitled non-Tanzanian personnel are required to fill in the PRO 6 form for approval by the Chief of Protocol of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Tanzanian citizens employed in a professional category as advisers or officials in International Organisations are exempt from paying customs duties under section 15 (b) of the Diplomatic and Consular Immunities and Privileges Act. Such personnel should also use the PRO 6 form for clearance of articles they import.
(b) Missions should send the specimen signatures of the Head of Mission and two other senior staff authorised to sign PRO 6 and CD 3 forms on behalf of the mission, together with the mission's seal, to the Protocol Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
W2D005T
PRELIMINARY 
A.1 These Regulations may be cited as the Police Force Service Regulations 1995, and shall come into operation on the 1st day of January 1995.
A.2 (1) In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
"the act" means the Police Force and Prisons Service Commission Act, 1990; 
"an increment" means an increase of pay of a prescribed amount granted annually on incremental scales until the maximum of the scale is reached; 
"appointment" includes:
(a) a probationary or a temporary appointment;
(b) an acting appointment where the person appointed to such acting appointment is, under the terms of his appointment, entitled to the salary of the post to which he is so appointed;
"appropriate tribunal" in the case of:
(a) An Inspector means the Inspector General of Police, a Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner, a Senior Assistant Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner or a board consisting of not less than two Senior Police Officers appointed by the Inspector General;
" child" means:
(a) Unmarried child, child born out of wedlock, step-child, legally adopted child or child of a deceased near relative, who is not more than eighteen years of age and is wholly maintained by the officer;
(b) unmarried child, child born out of wedlock, step child, legally adopted child or child of a deceased near relative, of any age, who because of physical or mental infirmity is unable to earn a living and is therefore wholly maintained by the officer;
(c) unmarried child of any age who for reasons of undergoing studies at any recognized institution is unable to earn a living and is wholly maintained by the officer;
"Commanding Officer" means the Inspector General, a Commissioner, a Deputy Commissioner, a Senior Assistant Commissioner, an Assistant Commissioner, a Regional Police Commander and a Senior Police Officer for the time being *incharge> of any of those Branches of the Police Force known as the Criminal Investigation Department, the Field Force, the Marine Unit, the Police Air Wing, the Police College, the Police Training School, the Railways Division, the TAZARA Police, the Signals Branch, the Airport Police Division and the Dog and Horse Unit or any other Unit/Branch or Division as may be prescribed from time to time by the Inspector General of Police;
"Commission" means the Police Force and Prisons Service Commission established under section 4 of the Police Force and Prisons Service Commission Act, l990.
"Commissioner" means a Commissioner of Police appointed under section 8 of the Police Force ordinance; 
"Committee" means the Police Force Emoluments Committee established under Regulation E.1 of these Regulations.
"Disciplinary Authority" shall have the meaning assigned to that term by Regulation C.2, C.3, C.4 and includes in any case where the power of a disciplinary authority are exercised by the President under the authority of regulation C.2, the Principal Secretary to the President;
"eligible post" means any post in the Police Force prescribed by the Inspector General for eligibility of responsibility allowance.
"Inquiry Officer" means an officer appointed to carry out an inquiry under regulation C.13;
"Inspector" means an Inspector of police and includes an Assistant Inspector of Police;
"Inspector General" means the Inspector General of Police;
"Junior Police Officer" means a Police Officer of or below the rank of Inspector;
"Member" means a member of the Commission and includes the chairman and the Vice-Chairman;
"Minister" means the Minister for the time being responsible for matters relating to the Police Force;
"Night duty" means a scheduled duty tour of a duration of not less than six consecutive hours and such duty tour extends beyond midnight;
"Performance standard" shall mean the standard of performance prescribed by the Inspector General;
"Police Force" means the Police Force of the United Republic of Tanzania constituted in accordance with the Police Force Ordinance; 
"Principal Secretary" means the Principal Secretary of the Ministry for the time being responsible for matters relating to the Police Force;
"Professional Qualification" means advanced diploma, any recognized university degree, or other recognized equivalent qualification from a recognized University or Institution;
"Senior Police Officer" means a Police Officer above the rank of Inspector. 
"Stress Post" means any post in the Police Force designated by the Inspector General for the purpose of stress allowance.
"Technician Certificate" means a certificate issued by a recognized Institution to the effect that the person named therein has acquired technical skills of a particular trade at specific level.
(2) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) the definitions set out in section 2 of the Police Force Ordinance shall apply to these Regulations in so far as the same may be applicable.

CONSTITUTION AND ABOLITION OF POLICE OFFICES 
A.3. (l) The powers of constituting and abolishing offices in the Police Force are vested in the President. (2) An application for the constitution of an office in the Police Force shall be made by the Principal Secretary to the President and every such application shall state:
(a) the title of the proposed office; 
(b) the salary or salary scale to be attached to the proposed office; 
(c) whether the proposed office is to be a pensionable office;
(d) the reason why the constitution of the proposed offence is considered desirable;
(e) the qualifications which will be required of a holder of the proposed office and the duties which such holder of the proposed office will be required to perform;
(f) whether or not funds are available;
(g) such other matters as the President may require.
(3) An application for the abolition of an office in the Police Force shall be made by the Principal Secretary to the President and every such application shall state:
(a) the reason why it is considered desirable that the office should be abolished;
(b) such other matters as the President may require. 

APPOINTMENTS (INCLUDING PROMOTIONS AND TRANSFERS) CONFIRMATION OF APPOINTMENTS AND TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENTS (OTHERWISE THAN BY DISCIPLINARY PROCEEDINGS) 
A. Police Officers of and above the rank of Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police 
B.1 This part of these Regulations shall apply to officers in the Police Force of and above the rank of Senior Assistant Commissioner.
B.2 The power of appointment, promotion, confirmation and termination of appointment of Police officers of and above the rank of Senior Assistant Commissioner are vested in the President of the United Republic of Tanzania.
B.3 (1) Where a vacancy occurs or it is known that a vacancy will occur in an office above the rank of Assistant Commissioner, the Inspector General shall notify the Principal Secretary who in turn shall notify the Minister and the Principal Secretary in the President's Office. The Principal Secretary in the President's Office shall forward the same to the President stating whether:-
(a) the vacancy should be filled by the promotion or transfer of a serving police Officer; or
(b) it is likely that a suitable candidate will be found elsewhere in a serving Government department; or
(c) it is likely that a suitable candidate will be found by advertisement in Tanzania or elsewhere.
(2) Where the Inspector General recommends the promotion or transfer of a serving Police Officer to fill the vacancy, he shall furnish to the Principal Secretary, who shall in turn forward to the Principal secretary in the President's office. The Principal Secretary in the President's Office shall forward with his opinion to the President for decision, the record of service in Tanzania of the officer recommended together with names of any Police Officers who would be superseded and reasons for recommending such supersession.
(3) Where the Inspector General is unable to recommend the promotion or transfer of a serving Police Officer to fill the vacancy, he shall notify the Principal Secretary who in turn shall inform the Principal Secretary in the President's office. The principal Secretary in the President's office shall inform the President the names of officers holding the rank from which promotion would normally have been made together with reasons for not recommending those officers for his decision.
(4) Where the Inspector General is of the opinion that no suitable candidate is likely to be found in Tanzania, he shall notify the Principal Secretary who in turn shall inform the Principal Secretary in the President's Office for onward information to the President, of the arrangements which exist or are in prospect for the training of local candidates to fill such vacancy.
B. Police Officers of the rank of Assistant Inspector of Police up to and including that of Assistant Commissioner.
B.4 This part of these Regulations shall apply to officers in the Police Force of or above the rank of Assistant Inspectors up to and including that of Assistant Commissioner. 
B 5 (l) The Commission shall have the following powers in respect of officers of the rank of Assistant Inspector up to and including the rank of Assistant Commissioner;
(a) the power of appointment (including appointments on promotion);
(b) The power of confirmation in his appointment of any Police Officer appointed on probation or the extension of the probationary period of any such officer;
(c) The power to terminate the appointment of any such officer under the provisions of this part of these Regulations;
(2) The Commission may, subject to any instructions which it may from time to time issue, depute the Principal Secretary to exercise on its behalf all or any of the powers conferred on the Commission by paragraph (1) in respect of any Police officer appointed or to be appointed on temporary terms.
B.6 (1) In selecting candidates for appointment (including appointments on promotion) the Commission will have regard primarily to the efficiency of the Police Force.
(2) As between officers having the same degree of preference, greater weight will be given to qualifications, experience, proved merit and suitability for the post in question than to seniority. 
B.7 (1) Where a vacancy occurs or it is known that a vacancy will occur in any office to which this part of these Regulations applies, the Inspector General shall notify the Commission.
(2) Where notification of a vacancy is given under this regulation the Inspector General shall make to the Commission recommendations stating whether in his opinion: -
(a) the vacancy should be filled by the promotion or transfer of a serving Police Officer; or
(b) it is likely that a suitable candidate will be found elsewhere in a Government department; or
(c) it is likely that a suitable candidate will be found by advertisement in Tanzania or elsewhere.
(3) Where the Inspector General recommends the promotion or transfer of a serving Police Officer to fill the vacancy, he shall furnish to the Commission the record of the officer recommended together with names of any Police Officers who would be superseded and the reasons for recommending such supersession.
(4) Where the Inspector General is unable to recommend the promotion or transfer of a serving Police Officer to fill the vacancy, he shall report to the Commission the names of the officers holding the rank from which promotion would normally be made together with his reasons for not recommending those officers for promotion.
B.8 (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) below, applications for appointment to vacant posts will be invited by public advertisement in Tanzania in such manner as the Commission may determine.
(2) A vacant post will not be advertised where the Commission is satisfied that the post should be filled by the promotion, transfer or re-engagement of serving officer or the continued employment of an officer on temporary terms.
B.9 Where vacancies are to be filled according to the results of examinations held under the authority of the Commission the procedures set out on the preceding regulations of this part shall not apply and the Commission will take arrangements as may be appropriate.
C. Police Officer below the Rank of Assistant Inspector
B.10 This part of these Regulations shall apply to officers in the Police Force below the rank of Assistant Inspector.
B.ll The power in respect of Police Officers below the rank of Assistant Inspector in relation to appointment, promotion and termination of appointment; re-engagement for further service on or after completion of an initial period of service; retirement on or after reaching voluntary retirement age, are hereby vested in the Inspector General. 
B.12 (1) Enlistment in any rank below that of Assistant inspector shall be for a period of three years or such lesser period as may from time to time be determined by the Inspector General. On the completion of the first period of enlistment or within three months before such completion the Inspector General may, in his discretion approve re-engagement for a further period of three years or such less period as he may from time to time determine and may similarly approve further re-engagements. 
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) above a police cadet shall be enlisted for a period of seven years or such less period as may from time to time be determined by the Inspector General.
(3) No person who is under the age of eighteen years may be enlisted without the prior consent of his parent or guardian, and where such parent or guardian cannot be found, without the prior approval of District Commissioner of the district in which such person normally resides.
(4) On Completion of not less than twelve years of continuous service, the Inspector General may recommend to the Principal Secretary, admission to pensionable status of any Police Officer below the rank of Assistant Inspector if such officer has applied for such admission and the Inspector General is satisfied that he is, in all respects, suitable to be granted pension. On such admission he shall be confirmed in his appointment and shall cease to be eligible for the award of a retiring benefits under the provisions of the Police Force Ordinance.
(5) If any non-pensionable Police Officer below the Rank of Assistant Inspector offers to re-engage for service within six months after having received his discharge, he shall, if there is a vacancy and if the Inspector General approves of his re-engagement, be entitled to the rank or grade which he held at the date of his discharge and his service shall, if the Inspector General approves, be deemed to be continuous for the purposes of the award of gratuity under the provisions of the Police Force Ordinance.

W2D006T
PROCEEDINGS 
1. INTRODUCTION 
1.1. The Second Annual Consultative meeting on the Institutional Transformation Programme "UDSM-2000", organised by the PMU and chaired by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. M. L. Luhanga, was held on 21st-22nd September, 1995 in the University Council Chamber.
The meeting was attended by the University members of staff, Government officials, and members of the donor community. (The list of participants is attached as Annex. 1). In addition to the opening speech, delivered by the Chairman of the University Council, Ambassador F.M. Kazaura, a total of 10 papers were presented and discussed. These form the core of the proceedings as presented under the headings which follow. Mr. J.V. Mwapachu, Vice Chairman of the University Council delivered the closing speech.
2. OPENING 
2.1. Welcoming the participants to the Second Annual Consultative meeting on the Institutional Transformation Programme, "UDSM-2000", the Chairman pointed out that the meeting was intended to bring together all the stakeholders, i.e. the University, Government and the donor community, to deliberate on the progress of the transformation process in order to assess whether or not the University was on the right track; to receive and discuss a report on the activities of the PMU and contribute ideas which would enable the University to refine or fine-tune its original concepts contained in the Strategic Corporate Plan which was adopted in August, 1994. He pointed out that the meeting, planned to be held annually, was a follow up on the first consultative meeting held in 1993.
2.2. OPENING ADDRESS BY THE GUEST OF HONOUR AMBASSADOR F. M. KAZAURA, CHAIRMAN OF THE UNIVERSITY COUNCIL 
2.2.1. In his opening address the Chairman of the University Council observed that fast moving changes in the global economy, political scene and developments in Science and Technology had compelled all institutions, including Universities, to adjust themselves to the new environment by adopting planning strategies that can quickly take care of the changed environment and reasonably forecast what should be expected of them in the years ahead. He noted that for that reason, most Universities in the world had adopted the well proven technique of strategic planning which the University of Dar es Salaam too adopted in 1994.
2.2.2. He observed that since institutions were dynamic, it was expected that the concept enunciated in UDSM Corporate Strategic Plan would be reviewed and refined periodically to suit the situation. He expressed hope that during the two days of the consultative meeting, deliberations would be directed towards revisiting the objectives and the main features of the UDSM transformation programme and the progress of implementing the Corporate Strategic Plan particularly the progress made since the last consultative meeting held in September, 1993. It was hoped that during the two days meeting the strengths, weaknesses, threats and opportunities of the institution would be clearly assessed, especially in terms of outputs delivery which act as a gauge of a good University.
2.2.3 The Chairman of the University Council further called upon the participants to address the following issues:
(i) the transformation of the organisational culture since it was not only of relevance to the University but was also of national importance;
(ii) the UDSM legal status: whether it was flexible enough to accommodate the transformation process;
(iii) the role and place of the external donors in the transformation process in order to ensure that the transformation process could be sustained.
3. OBJECTIVES AND RELEVANCE OF THE INSTITUTIONAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMME: UNIVERSITY OF DAR ES SALAAM-2000 
3.1. OBSERVED that developments since the First Consultative Meeting on UDSM Transformation Programme held in 1993 had further confirmed the need for transformation if the University is to enter the 21st century in a manner that would guarantee fulfilment of its role.
3.2. IDENTIFIED some of these  development><+_developments> as comprising:
(i) the worsening University's financial situation due to decreasing Governmental budgetary allocation which had gone down to 28% of the total University's requirements;
(ii) *inspite> of the generous assistance from various donors, negotiations with them for additional support were increasingly getting difficult;
(iii) as earlier observed in 1993 the University student enrolment had stagnated and remained one of the lowest in the region. Only 30% of the qualifying candidates had for the past few years been admitted to the University of Dar es Salaam.
Particularly, admission of women students had declined over the years from 26% of the total enrolment in 1979/80 to 17% in 1994/95 and despite the fact that Science and Technology were of paramount importance for the country to address itself for the 21st century, admissions into Science Faculty had also gone down from 37% in 1979/80 to 16% in 1995/96;
(iv) employment opportunities for the University graduates were dwindling, which called for a review of curricula in a manner that would empower the graduates to go into entrepreneurship and private sector employment.
3.3. REITERATED that, as earlier informed at the First Consultative meeting in 1993, it was necessary for the University of Dar es Salaam to embark on the Institutional Transformation Programme - UDSM-2000" by addressing the forces that had historically reduced its operational capabilities in order to renew itself through a process of a self-controlled organizational development geared towards empowering the University to effectively fulfil its mission.
3.4. NOTED that the UDSM Institutional transformation Programme aimed at giving the University internal autonomy to enable it operate efficiently and effectively; to advance relevance and quality of teaching, research and consulting while pursuing a systematic, rational quantitative expansion of student enrolment and overall capacity.
3.5. NOTED that the immediate objectives of the Institutional transformation Programme included:
(a) achieving a broad awareness of institutional facts and figures, strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and risks through a dynamic stocktaking and adjustment process;
(b) achieving consensus on the corporate mission, objectives, policies, strategic plans and logistics to be deployed;
(c) pursuing organizational development process through mature and scientific dialogue between stakeholders, resulting in jointly formulated and implemented policies and strategies.
3.6. EXPRESSED satisfaction that the Institutional Transformation Programme "UDSM-2000" had taken off. However it was OBSERVED:
1. that challenges of the Institutional Transformation were too big and complex which called for seriousness and commitment not only of the entire University community but also the Government and the Society as a whole;
2. that it had stimulated a process of re-evalution, self-analysis, creativity and discovery thus injecting a new life into the University for dialogue and efforts towards improving University operations and search for excellence;
3. that a number of individuals had dedicated their time and efforts in various specific tasks and activities geared towards implementing the Institutional Transformation, which showed that transformation could be achieved because the University staff had both the will and expertise;
4. the programme had witnessed strong and generous support from the donor community, particularly from SIDA, EU, MHO, BMZ (GTZ) and NORAD, whose assistance had made it possible for the Institutional Transformation Programme to take off.
3.7. In view of the above observations, THANKED members of the University staff who in various capacities and through various activities had contributed their efforts and expertise towards implementing the Institutional Transformation. Particular thanks were made to the donor community for their moral and financial support.
3.8. EXPRESSED hope that given the above reasons the Institutional transformation programme would succeed.
4. THE MAIN FEATURES OF THE UDSM CORPORATE STRATEGIC PLAN 
4.1. Rationale for the UDSM Corporate Strategic Plan 
4.1.1. NOTED that the University of Dar es Salaam had during its 25 years of existence witnessed fundamental and dramatic changes taking place both locally and globally. These changes had called for a critical re-examination and re-definition of UDSM's role in order to evolve strategies for fulfilling its mission in the 21st century.
4.1.2. INFORMED that efforts to re-define the role of UDSM culminated in the formulation of the Institutional Transformation Programme "UDSM-2000" and crystallised in the document code-named the "UDSM Corporate Strategic Plan" which was approved by the University Council in August 1994.
4.1.3. NOTED that the strategic plan, broadly based on the National Higher Education Policy, defines the major policies and overall goals in addition to setting the broad objectives for UDSM.
4.2. Main Features of the Corporate Strategic Plan 
4.2.1. NOTED that the Institutional Transformation Programme was designed to address both the management operations and outputs with regard to quality and relevance, quantity, equity, sources of financing, efficient use of resources and governance.
4.2.2. NOTED also that its immediate objectives include:
(i) achieving a broad awareness of the institutional facts and figures, strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and risks;
(ii) achieving consensus on corporate mission, objectives, policies and the strategy to be adopted and
(iii) adopting development strategy which ensures a healthy climate and mature dialogue amongst all stakeholders.
4.2.3. NOTED that the Corporate Strategic Plan, enshrined in the Institutional Transformation Programme, focuses on:
(i) the University's internal deficits regarding policies and planning, efficiency and effectiveness of management, administrative, technical and academic back-up services; and
(ii) the national and societal deficits regarding professional human resource and capacity building related to higher education, research and development.
4.3.4. NOTED that for both scenarios the Corporate Strategic Plan defines the overall goals and set broad objectives for input divisions: Corporate management, policies and planning, finance, back-up services and administration; and for the output, divisions: Undergraduate studies, postgraduate studies, research and publications, contracted research, consultancy and services.
4.3.5. NOTED that in addressing the internal deficits, the Corporate Strategic Plan re-defines the University mission, basic objectives, national role and functions, the outputs delivery functions, corporate set-up (ownership, autonomy and governance).
4.3.6. NOTED also that in addressing the internal deficits, the Corporate Strategic Plan proposes re-organization of the University administrative structure.
4.3.7. NOTED that under the Corporate Strategic Plan, transformation of the UDSM administrative structure would be carried out by establishing four defined divisions of inputs and three defined divisions of outputs which attempt to introduce horizontal decentralization.
These divisions were identified as:
Input divisions:
(i) Corporate Management
(ii) Policies and Planning
(iii) Finance
(iv) Back-up Services and Administration and
Outputs Divisions:
(i)  Undergraduates><+_Undergraduate> Studies,
(ii) Postgraduate Studies, Research and Publications,
(iii) Contracted Research, Consultancy and Services.
4.3.8. NOTED that in addition to the horizontal decentralization of the input and output divisions, the Corporate Strategic Plan envisaged that the University operations would be vertically structured into two operational and two coordinating levels.
4.3.9. NOTED that operationalization of activities involve formation of:
(a) "Schools" which would be largely autonomous but not independent entities, embracing a major sectoral field; and
(b) "Institutes" embracing a specialist subject area.
4.3.10. NOTED that the two coordinating levels would embrace the University as the overall entity responsible for all policy framework and Departments as academic units responsible for coordination of a major field of undergraduate study.
4.3.11. NOTED that the Corporate Strategic Plan envisaged dualization of the University management into representative corporate management and operational line management. The former positions would be filled by democratically elected academic members of staff of the rank of professor
while the operational line management positions would be filled by responsible full professional qualified personnel.
4.3.12. NOTED that other areas envisaged to be reorganised under the input division include coordination of Policies and Planning, standardization of Operations and Procedures, having clear structured organizational charts, transformation of the organizational culture as well as laying donors strategies and formulating terms and conditions of service that would promote staff retention and effective human resource deployment.
4.3.13. OBSERVED that for the proposed Institutional Transformation Programme to be effectively carried out there was a need for the University to initiate dialogue with the Government regarding the most appropriate legal status with respect to ownership, autonomy and governance and which would enable the University to pursue a strategy of "partnership in education" (share holder concept) thereby opening the University's doors for privately financed and third-party sponsored expansion of student enrolment expected to reach 8000 by the year 2000.
4.3.14. NOTED the information that academic programmes would be reviewed with a view to producing job creators as opposed to job seekers. NOTED that it was envisaged that undergraduate enrolment would rise up to 8,000 by the year 2000 and to 13,000 by the year 2008. While postgraduate student figures would reach 1300 by the year 2000.
4.3.15. NOTED the information that emphasis on contracted research, consultancy and services would be placed on those projects that can generate income.
4.3.16. NOTED the five phases, as shown below, during which the Institutional Transformation Programme "UDSM-2000" would be implemented:
(a) 1991-1993: Take off phase - setting up the framework for the programme management and operations.
(b) 1992-1994: Development of policies and strategies.
(c) 1993-1995: Fine-tuning phase - drawing up detailed description of both the structure, organization and procedures.
(d) 1994-2002: Realization phase - independence, enhanced quality and relevance of programmes, quantitative expansion of output, finalised legal status and agreed operational mode.
(e) 1998-2006: Consolidation phase - improved quality and relevance, further increases in output, redressing of shortcomings, adjustment of programmes if need be.
5. DISCUSSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ON CHAPTER 3 & 4 
5.1. OBSERVED that implementation of the Institutional transformation Programme "UDSM-2000" had no time-frame but would be implemented in phases.
5.2. NOTED the information that implementation of the programme in overlapping phases was designed deliberately in order to allow for flexibility and adjustments.
5.3. WONDERED whether the University had apart from donors alternative sources of funding the Institutional Transformation Programme sought government support when it was well known that the Government had limited resources. RECEIVED information that the Government was sympathetic with the University's initiatives but it had not made a definite commitment in terms of funds. 

W2D007T
Political Parties Act 1992
An Act to provide for the terms, conditions and the procedure for the registration of political parties and for incidental or connected matters
Enacted by the Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania
1. This Act may be cited as the Political Parties Act, 1992 and shall come into operation on 1st July, 1992.
2. This Act shall apply to Tanzania Zanzibar as well as to Tanzania Mainland.
3. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires -
"Minister" means the Minister for the time being responsible for legal affairs;
"party" means a political party;
"political party" means any organized group formed for the purpose of forming a government or a local authority within the United republic through elections or for putting up or supporting candidates to such elections;
"Registrar means the Registrar of political parties appointed under section 4 and includes deputy and an assistant registrar.
4. (1) There shall be a Registrar of Political Parties in the office of the Prime Minister or in such other office as the President may determine who shall be appointed by the President.
(2) There shall be a Deputy Registrar who shall be appointed by the President;
(3) The Registrar shall be responsible for the registration of political parties in accordance with the provisions of this Act and to perform any other function conferred by the Act.
(4) In the performance of his functions under this Act the Registrar shall from time to time consult the Minister.
5. The Minister may appoint assistant registrars and such other officers and in such numbers as may from time to time be required to carry out the purposes of this Act.
6. No suit shall lie against the Registrar, assistant registrar or other officer appointed under this Act for anything done or omitted to be done in good faith and without negligence in the performance of any function under this Act.
7. (1) Subject to subsection (2) of this section, every political party formed in any part of the United Republic, shall apply to the Registrar in the prescribed manner to be registered as a political party.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) of this section Chama Cha Mapinduzii also known by the acronym CCM which was immediately before this Act, the sole political party for the whole of the United Republic shall on the coming into effect of this Act, and without further requirement, be deemed to have been fully registered as a political party and shall be issued with a certificate of registration in accordance with this Act.
(3) No organization shall operate or function as a political party unless it has first been registered in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
8. (1) Every political party other than the political party registrable pursuant to subsection (2) of section 7, shall apply and be registered in tow stages, after fulfilling all the conditions prescribed for each stage.
(2) Every political party shall first be provisionally registered and issued with a certificate of provisional registration upon fulfilling the conditions prescribed in Section 9.
(3) Every political party which has been provisionally registered and which in addition to the conditions prescribed in section 9, has fulfilled the conditions prescribed in Section 10, shall not alter than one hundred and eighty days from the date of provisional registration, apply to the Registrar for full registration.
(4) The provisional registration of every party shall lapse and every provisional registration certificate shall cease to be of any effect at the expiry of one hundred and eighty days from the date of such provisional registration.
(5) The Registrar shall register and issue a certificate of provisional registration or as the case may be, a certificate of full registration to every party which fulfils all the conditions for such registration.
9. (1) No political party shall qualify for provisional registration unless
(a) the founding members have applied for registration of the party in the prescribed manner;
(b) the application has been accompanied with a copy of the constitution of the proposed party;
(c) its membership is voluntary and open to all the citizens of the United Republic without discrimination on account of gender, religious belief, race, tribe ethnic origin, profession or occupation.
(2) Without prejudice to *subsetion> (1) of this section no political party shall qualify for provisional registration if by its constitution or policy 
(a) it aims to advocate or further the interests of
(i) any religious belief or group;
(ii) any tribal, ethnic or racial group, or
(iii) only a specific area within any part of the United Republic;
8b) it advocates the breaking up of the union constituting the United Republic;
(c) it accepts or advocates the use of force or violence as a means of attaining its political objectives;
(d) it advocates or aims to carry on its political activities exclusively in one part of the United Republic; or
(e) it does not allow periodic and democratic election of its leadership.
10. (1) No political party shall be qualified to be fully registered unless
(a) it has first been provisionally registered;
(b) it has obtained not less than two hundred members who are qualified to be registered as voters for the purposes of parliamentary elections from each of at least ten Regions of the United Republic out of which at least two regions are in Tanzania Zanzibar being one Region each from Zanzibar and Pemba; and
(c) it has submitted the names of the national leadership of the party, and such leadership draws its members from both Tanzania Zanzibar and Tanzania Mainland;
d) it has submitted to the Registrar the location of its head office within the United Republic and a postal address to which notices and other communications may be sent.
11. (1) Every party which has been provisionally registered shall be entitled
(a) to hold and address public meetings in any area in the United Republic after obtaining a permit from the District Commissioner for the area concerned for the purposes of publicising their party and soliciting for membership;
(b) to the protection and assistance of the security agencies for the purposes of facilitating peaceful and orderly meetings:
Provided that provisional registration shall not entitle any party to put up a candidate or to campaign for any candidate in any parliamentary or presidential election or in a local authority election.
(2) Every party which has been fully registered shall be entitled to put up candidates in any parliamentary or presidential election in a local authority election.
12. (1) No party formed or existing in any part the United Republic prior to the Union of Tanganyika and Zanzibar or prior to 5th February, 1977, shall be revived or the name or acronym of such party be used by any political party to be registered under this Act.
(2) Subject to subsection (3) no person shall establish, form or allow to be established or formed any branch, unit, youth or women organisation or other organ of any political party in any working place, school or other place of learning.
(3) For the purposes of this section places of residence for employees provided by the employer shall not be regarded as places of work.
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (2) of this section is guilty of any offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding forty thousand shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment and the court shall order the closure or disbanding of the branch, unit, youth organisation or other organ of the party relating to the offence.
13. (1) The funds and other resources of political parties which have been fully registered shall derive from
(a) membership fees;
(b) voluntary contributions;
(c) the proceeds of any investment, project or undertaking in which the party has an interest;
(d) subventions from the government;
(e) donations, bequests and grants from any other source.
(2) Every party shall disclose to the Registrar any funds or other resources obtained by the party 
(a) from sources outside the United Republic, whether obtained directly or through sources within the United Republic;
(b) from foreign organizations stationed within the United Republic;
or
(c) from any person resident in the United Republic who is not a citizen of the United Republic.
(3) Any official of any party or other person liable to disclose to the registrar on behalf of any party the funds or other resources of the party who fails to disclose or gives false information in relation to such funds or resources obtained by a party from sources outside the United Republic, shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine equal to the amount or the value of the resources not disclosed or in relation to which false information was given or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding twelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
14. (1) Every political party which has been fully registered shall
(a) maintain proper accounts of the funds and property of the party;
(b) submit to the registrar
(i) an annual statement of the accounts of the party audited by an auditor registered as an authorized auditor under the Auditors and Accounts (Registration) Act, 1972 and the  auditors><+_auditor's> report on those accounts;
(ii) an annual declaration of all the property owned by the party
(2) The Registrar after inspecting any accounts or report submitted pursuant to this section may, for the benefit of the members of the public, publish any matter relating to the funds, resources or property of any party or the use of such funds, resources or property.
(3) The Registrar shall publish in the official Gazette, an annual report on the audited accounts of every party.
15. (1) Subject to subsection (2) the registrar may cancel the registration of any political party which has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or which has otherwise ceased to qualify for registration under this Act.
(2) The Registrar shall not cancel the registration of any party unless
(a) he has in writing informed the party concerned of the contravention or the loss of qualification and of the intention to cancel the registration;
(b) he has received or failed to receive, within the period prescribed by him, any representations from the party concerned;
(c) he has submitted to the Minister the intention to cancel the registration of the party together with any representations made by the party and the Minister has agreed to such cancellation.
16. (1) The decision of the Registrar on the registration or the cancellation of any party shall be final and shall not be the subject of appeal in any court.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall be construed to preclude judicial review of the decision of the Registrar
17. (1) Every political party which has obtained a certificate of full registration shall appoint a board of trustees to manage the properties and any business or investment of the party.
(2) Every board of trustees shall be duly incorporated under the Trustees Incorporation Ordinance and every party shall not later than sixty days from the date of full registration submit to the Registrar
(a) the names and addresses of the members of the board of trustees;
and
(b) a copy of the certificate of incorporation.
18. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to any provision of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by subsection (1) the Minister may make regulations
(a) prescribing the manner of registration of political parties under this Act;
(b) regulating or restricting the use or the changes of names of political parties;
(c) prescribing the forms which may be used for carrying out the provisions of this Act;
(d) for securing the submission to the Registrar of accounts relating to the assets and liabilities, income and expenditure of political parties;
(e) prescribing the fees in respect of anything to be done under this Act;
(f) securing the submission to the Registrar of annual or other periodical returns relating to the constitution, objects and membership of political parties; 
(g) prescribing the rate and the manner in which subventions may be granted to political parties;
(h) prescribing anything which is required, or it is necessary or desirable that it be prescribed for the better giving to this Act.
19. The Societies Ordinance is hereby amended in the subsection (2) in the definition "society" by deleting paragraph 2h" and substituting for it the following new paragraph
"(h) a political party registrable under the Political Parties Act, 1992."
Passed in the National Assembly on 8th May, 1992.
W2D008T
Proposed University of Dar es Salaam land use policy
1.0 INTRODUCTION
The University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) has conceived and put into motion a process of institutional transformation programme ''UDSM-2000'' which has to lead the University to adequately fulfil its mission in the 21st century. To ensure that this process is on tract, a corporate strategic plan has been formulated to define overall goals and objectives on how these changes will be achieved.
Some of the key strategic objectives under the plan which are of relevance to land use and therefore crucial factors in determining future land use can be grouped as under:-
a) Mission objectives 
Expansion of student enrolment from the present number of about over 3,500 to over 10,000 students by the year 2000 and qualitative improvements thereof through provision of adequate physical facilities.
b)Economic imperatives 
i) Persistent under-funding of the University due to reduced Government capacity to adequately support it financially. The motive here is self-augmentation of University income as a means of ensuring sustainability.
ii) Changes in the socio-economic and political climate taking place in the country towards a more liberalized market oriented economy. The aim here is to attract investment capital which the University is unable to raise.
iii) Optimum and rational utilization of available resources including land assets.
c) Protection of the environment from degradation.
d) Conservation of ''sensitive' areas such as areas of biodiversity, etc. within the University land.
e) Preservation of aesthetic standards of the University.
Under "UDSM-2000" strategy, the University of DSM is anticipated to be transformed into a self-sustaining institution. This being the case, means should be sought to enable UDSM internally generate much more income so as to make it operational. To achieve this goal, one of the areas to be exploited is the UDSM land. 
According to the 1987 Master Plan, 4.5% of the land is used for academic and administrative activities, 2.7% for student residential facilities, 13 % for staff facilities, 4.5% other facilities and service buildings and 76% is for streams, valleys, forests and future expansion. On this account the proposed UDSM land use policy proposes that part of UDSM land, be developed by inviting/allowing interested commercial developers from within UDSM community and outside to invest on the land. 
2.0 BACKGROUND 
There has never been any formal land use policy in existence before. However, in some cases UDSM has managed to make arrangements to allow external organisations to utilise its land (e.g. BP Petrol Station). Our records indicate that most applications relating to commercial operation on UDSM Land were being turned down, perhaps the absence of a clearly defined Land Use Policy attributed to this.
Sometime back the Estates Committee directed the Estates department to prepare a proposal of special locations of sites for construction of sheds for small business. The aim of this was to avoid improper scattering of such sheds around the campus. Estates Department prepared plans of both site locations and type of building to be constructed. The original idea was that the cost of erecting these sheds were to be met by the UDSM after completion of which they would be rented to interested small businessmen. Due to lack of funds, the plan was frozen. Of recently, one of the biggest financial institutions in the country (i.e. the National Provident Fund (NPF) proposed to develop a housing scheme on the land of UDSM on the condition that they (NPF) be given Title deed of the piece of land to be developed and in consideration thereof, NPF surrender the ownership of the houses to UDSM but only after they have recovered the investment capital. The idea of transferring the title deed to NPF was disagreed by UDSM.
However, negotiations between UDSM and NPF are still going on but on a different Course, the UDSM is interested in NPF providing investment capital to be repaid by the government to finance construction of houses or student hostels without transferring the ownership of the title deed. But all in all, the main argument is whether UDSM should go on owning an undeveloped land or invite or join hand with interested commercial developers to invest on the land thereby generate some income and provide essential social services to the University Community.
3.0 JUSTIFICATION 
The UDSM is facing financial constraints. The UDSM budget has been decreasing in real terms (See App. l). Even the average annual maintenance budget allocated by the government for maintenance of UDSM infrastructure is only 36% of the actual amount required. This maintenance, as the results, the physical condition of UDSM infrastructure, buildings and services has been deteriorating year after another. 
The University authorities have for several years been concerned about the steady deterioration in the infrastructure, buildings, and services at the campus due mainly to lack of maintenance.
For example, financial constraints on the annual maintenance budgets over many years has made it very difficult for the Estates Department to carry out any planned or preventive maintenance to the extent that in 1982 it was realised that a major rehabilitation programme would be necessary if the valuable investment in buildings and infrastructure were to continue being of service to the Nation. The financial situation is not better for other activities such as for training, teaching facilities, research, etc. Under these circumstances, the New Land Use Policy aims at facilitating the internal generation of income in terms of rent for UDSM which will utilized by topping up the UDSM budget.
Also, the proposed land use policy aims at providing essential services to the University Community. 
4.0 OBJECTIVES OF THE NEW LAND USE POLICY 
UDSM budget from the Government has been considerably scaled down. With funds currently allocated, only critical activities of UDSM are being carried out. Nobody expects significant changes on the trend of UDSM budget from the Government. It is imperative that UDSM looks into internal means of subsidising its budget.
The main objectives of the New Land Use Policy can be summarised as follows:
(i) Income generation in terms of rent aiming at facilitating self sustainability of the UDSM activities budget.
(ii) Provision of social services to UDSM community.
5.0 IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY 
The land which is proposed for investment is a stretch along Sam Nujoma road and along both terminals of University road where it joins Sam Nujoma road. An area measuring 4.50 ha. is available. On the physical master plan an area of site in the North East corner is allocated for junior staff housing, space is available for about 300 plots of 12 x 30 metres plot size. The land is more attractive and well ventilated than the higher areas to the west of the site. The area is well served with good transportation system coupled with high purchasing power community, from the new housing areas to the east of University Campus. 
Another area is the land measuring 3.02ha. to the South West of the main campus. This area is along the road leading to Changanyikeni.
Other areas for investment are UDSM plots located outside main campus such as Kunduchi Beach.
However in order to implement the proposed land use policy, UDSM master plan has been reviewed to incorporate areas identified for commercial purposes.
Due care has been made so that the principle aim of UDSM of provision of higher education is not jeopardised.
In this case the introduction of commercial zone has been made after considering that all other core functions - ie land for academic, administrative, residential, recreation sports, community services, forests, and for future expansion are satisfied.
6.0 TYPE OF STRUCTURES TO BE ERECTED 
Depending on the nature of the business/investment to be undertaken , the University will determine the structures to be erected according to the UDSM standards.
7.0 CATEGORIES OF BUSINESS TO BE OPERATED 
Proposed investment opportunities are listed hereunder:
Housing investment
Office accommodation
Hostels
Canteen/Restaurants
Bookshop and stationary
Secretarial services
Warehouse
Improvement of service/petrol station
Any other business as will be deemed right by the Estates Committee.
However for investments within UDSM main campus the first priority will be given to business which are providing social services to the University Community and currently not present.
8.0 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF SUB-COMMITTEE 
The Estates Committee of the University Council has to appoint a special sub-committee destined to dealing with land identification/allocation to would be investors/developers and scrutiny of business to be carried out according to specified conditions. Interested investors/developers intending to operate in one of the above mentioned areas, will have to submit their applications to the Chief Administrative Officer of UDSM. The Chief Administrative Officer will in turn relay the applications to the sub-committee for scrutiny. The sub-committee will also prepare a report (recommending or declining the application) to the Estates Committee for further action and approval or disapproval.
When scrutinising the applications, the sub-committee should give particular emphasis on the following issues:
Type of service and quality to be rendered
Suitability of such services to UDSM community (i.e. is there any in existence already? or is it needed? or does it conflict with the current use
Quality and magnitude of services 
Availability of space
Space allocation and the relationship with the requirement of the Physical Master Plan.
Duration of tenure
Benefits to be gained by UDSM as compared to losses
The impact of the business to security and safety provisions
The impact on aesthetic value
Standard and type of structures to be erected
It will be the responsibility of prospective applicants to come up with the following details pertaining to construction of a structure on UDSM land.
Detailed drawing of a proposed structure according to the University standards. 
Means of services provision i.e. water, telephone and power supply 
Size of plot - area in sq.m required 
Cost of construction/capital expenditure 
Means of drainage 
Name of contractor/builder to be employed to erect the structure 
Names of consultancy (if any) 
Construction period 
Anticipated date of starting business 
Estimated profits and turn-over of the business 
Source of financing or providing investment capital 
Expected period to recoup the capital
A feasibility study for each intended investment opportunity will have to be carried out to come out with most productive and appropriate investment opportunity especially for those to be located at the main campus. The sub-committee will have to set out standards for each particular item which will be considered in scrutinizing the applications, for instance in case of standard and type of structure it should be stated clearly that structures will be permanent for housing, offices, petrol/service stations. In case of space to indicate clearly that for each particular business so much square metres will be allocated.
The sub-committee will also be concerned with periodic inspection of sites and rent *propasals>.
9.0 MODE OF OWNERSHIP 
This paper proposes to invest on part of UDSM land earmarked for commercial activities. As indicated earlier, the major problem hindering development of UDSM land is lack of financial capital. By inviting developers/investors, UDSM expects them to provide capital while UDSM provides land. UDSM has no intention to subdivide, assign, sublet or dispose part of her land. The development made on the land or premises constructed remain the property of UDSM. This may be right after completion or after recouping the capital within a period of not more than 20 years.
10.0 MARKETING 
One of the aims of UDSM to invest on part of UDSM land is income generation.
Income generated from the proposed investments will be in terms of rent from premises constructed, profits or return generated from the business undertaken.
The rent charged will be market rent. An agreement will be made whereby the developer constructs the premises, then the property be rented to the developer or other tenants. The income generated will then be shared in an agreed ratio of say 1:3. UDSM to take 1 part as income and the developer takes 3 parts as profit generated or periodical payments to the capital outlay, until such period that the developer recovers her/his capital, when UDSM will be receiving the whole income.
10.1 Mode of inviting developers
One way which will be used to invite developers is by advertisement. This will be for specific areas like Kunduchi Beach.
For investments such as housing, hostels, offices, and warehouse, financial institutions, government/ parastatal organisations can be approached for total financing or joint venture.
11.0 PROBLEMS OF IMPLEMENTATION 
It was pointed out in the introduction of this paper that of all the problems hindering development of UDSM land, the most serious one is the lack of financial capital. This proposal tries to alleviate this problem by recommending that interested developers be welcomed to invest on part of UDSM land or plots in order to provide capital.
(i) Introduction of a commercial zone may appear to be against user condition in this case application for consent to the commissioner of lands will be necessary
ii) It is likely that some of greedy investors may take advantage after getting the sites carry out different activities from those approved. In this case periodic inspection will be *neccessary>.
(iii) It is likely that some of the elements of the new land use policy may conflict with the present land uses. This factor will be considered in selection of investments.
(iv) Perception of the UDSM community on the policy, it is no wonder the tabloids will have the leading-"versity sells 20% of its land" and make fun out of it.
(v) Introduction/attraction of property taxes, other tariffs' hence negotiations have to be done before starting with relevant authorities.
12.0 CONCLUSION 
The decrease of the University budget affects the activities of the University and has an impact on its sustainability. UDSM is richly endowed with a vast piece of land parts of which are either completely unexploited or are very much under exploited. Such parts should be a focus for commercial development with a view to generating additional funds to top up the meagre allocated annually by the government.

W2D009T
Summary Note on the Proceedings of the 1st Annual Consultative Meeting Held on 23rd September 1993 
Introduction 
The meeting was opened by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania His Excellence Ali Hassan Mwinyi. In his speech the President commended the step taken by the University to initiate a process of transformation, that he termed, self-renewal and re-orientation.
He appreciated the problems that the University was facing as a result of the shrinking economy hence the continued inability of the government to sustain its high level of funding for higher education and for the education sector in general.
The President raised concern over the low levels of student enrolment at the University of Dar es Salaam compared to other Universities in the region which he attributed to the inability of the government to sponsor more students.
In the light of the existing limitations the President stated that the government support the move and goals undertaken by the University. He suggested that the strategies to be adopted should be translated into the changes in organisation, financing and curricular of the University. These changes should aim at the production of original knowledge.
The President encouraged the University to take the self-financing mode and urged that the more the University supported itself financially the more secure it would be as it encounters the challenges of the 21st century.
The days program (attached) started with presentation of document A facts and figures.
Document A: Facts and Figure 
Data set no. 2 has a lot of Computational errors. - Use intake instead of total enrollment - the drop-out rate should be based on a single academic year. - Degree courses should also include Muhimbili College of Health Sciences.
Data set 4 - why is Zimbabwe not included. - Establish a criteria for selecting the countries - Arrange the countries alphabetically. Maintain a list of the same countries for comparative purposes. Illustration 4 should read student/staff ratio for selected African countries.
Data set 5 - Check on data for total establishment for example Faculty of Law, the Chief Academic Officer's Office, the University of Dar es Salaam Dispensary and double counting should be checked.
Data set 6 - The set should correlate with data set number 2 - Check computation and use percentages instead of ratios. Include Muhimbili College especially the Institute of Allied Sciences which offers Diploma Courses. Check on the staff of the Institute and in some Departments of MUCHS whether they teach and whether they have the qualifications.
Data set 7 - If data is available, provide more detailed interval. For example for Zimbabwe data is available up to 1993.
Data set 8 - What about foreign students included in the number of  graduate><+_graduates> who complete their courses. - Figures on unemployment would be better informing than the figures on employment.
Data set 9 - data set 3 and data set 9 should be related, or linked.
Document B: Analyses, Studies Reports: Reference Documentation. 
Delegates noted and appreciated the efforts undertaken to compile the reference documentation.
Document C: Corporate Strategic Plan. 
It was expressed that there should be a distillation of the activities in the program in a separate document to show the direction the University is taking as well as the plans for implementation. The details would come from the various sections of the strategic plan.
The ideas in the corporate strategic plan should be circulated to the wider community of the University, as the document undergoes modifications.
A participant raised a point on the need for focusing on the objectives of the plan and the importance of monitoring the process of implementing the plans. It was expressed that there is need also to show the performance indicators and concentrate on the question of efficiency, through the analysis of the unit cost.
Pointed out also that the values that students who pass through the University carry with them should also be considered. This may include for example the kind of leadership skills that they would need before they graduate. It will equip them more adequately in facing the new challenges in the world of employment.
Raised the question of the proposed structure and the concept of share holders. That there is need to give potential share holders the option of deciding whether they should continue remaining as share holders or opting out after some time.
In order to motivate people to behave according to the objectives embedded in the process of transforming the organisational culture it is important to create a system with proper incentives for the workers.
The section on the mission of the University was criticized for still being deficient. For example the questions at the bottom of page 3 may need to be answered. This would make it more elaborate. It was also proposed that the concept of "partnership in Education is equal to partnership in Development" should be changed to "Partnership in Education = to Commitment to Education. Prof. Baregu was commissioned by the chairman to provide an elaborated and expanded version of the concept.
In connection with the transformation of organisational culture it was argued that there is need to cultivate the culture of excellence and merit.
This should be added to the list. It will only be possible by introducing an appropriate incentive scheme that will encourage the habit of excellence it was argued.
A participant strongly stressed that the analysis of the situation using SWOT should be undertaken wholly. It should be spelled out in the paper showing out the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats instead of simply mentioning it. It should not be mentioned as a task to be undertaken later but details should appear in strategic plan.
A question was raised in connection to the rationale for the process of transformation. It was not clear whether the draft strategic plan did consider the vision for the society as well. This appears not to have not been considered. Where on page 13 the document mentions other societal parties as interested groups, the society should be considered as the users of the university product. Inevitably the process of transformation will have to be linked to the reviewing of the entire education system in Tanzania. Prof. S. S. Mushi was commissioned to write a short text and clarify on this opinion.
The difficulty involved in obtaining information as well as the magnitude of the work that the University has undertaken was appreciated. It was mentioned however that Zambia University has also gone through the process of transformation but not as drastic as that of UDSM. It is worth learning from them also. Wondered whether the concept of (PLC's) was not difficult to implement especially that government policy has not yet changed. Asked also on the extent to which donors were ready to support the approach/ concept of PLC's as applied to the running of Universities.
Some participants also asked whether there had been any informal discussions between the UDSM and the government on the proposal for making the University a PLC. Suggested that there was need to learn from how other institutions operate before the idea could be presented to government. Thus the private sector, the public sector and the society in general should be clearly understood in order to provide the necessary information.
It was also recommended that using terms that carry value judgement in a document like the strategic plan should be avoided.
Noted that the question of gender was missing and had not been adequately addressed. This it was important include a gender dimension in the draft.
Suggested that there was need for a calendar of activities to show how UDSM will go about managing the activities in the transformation program. It is also important to show what can be offered to other countries/universities which would like to co-operate with the University of Dar es Salaam. The role of external as well as internal donors should be made clear.
Although the government is a major funding agent, it was elaborated that other ministries also have government funding and the reason for including other ministries as shareholders is that the University would like to tap these funds.
In this connection agencies that sponsor students abroad have been requested to rationalize this and sponsor the student to the University of Dar es Salaam instead, at an economic fee.
The initiative undertaken by the University was commended and the participant underscored that it was impressive that the process was going on. It was added that the clarifications that were being provided during the presentations helped a great deal in making the document understandable to the participants.
A participant pointed out that donors have also contributed significantly in the fragmentation of resources in Universities. They were requested to restructure/reform their practices.
UDSM was congratulated for initiating the institutional process of change. Although the ideas and solutions being articulated are fascinating they should be thoroughly discussed with the wider community. The major obstacle that the University is likely to face is resistance to new ideas. There can also be another problem in the form of lack of continuity and sustainability for example the University may have a person who could easily dismiss the idea of institutional transformation without considering the efforts that have already been invested in it.
A participant suggested in connection with the concept of PLC that perhaps there is need to use concepts which show that people also have a role in the running of the University. Using the concept of a PLC may create the impression that the general public has nothing to do with the University.
Suggested that more elaboration may be needed concerning the question of job seekers. This takes into account that currently not all  graduate><+_graduates> secure employment in the public sector. There is need for a clear diagnosis to establish the nature of the problem. For example does the problem lie with the curriculum or with the entire education system?
It was suggested that in fact the University should  continues><+_continue> to produce both job-seekers and job-creators, because the notion of job creators has not yet been thought of thoroughly.
A participant cautioned on the dangers of confusing the process, and said that there are two levels at which the process can be perceived. There is the process of developing a national policy framework which is the job of the government and secondly there is the process of institutional transformation which is the job of the University. These should be made distinctively clear because the job of the University aims to undertake is already big enough.
Three important things were mentioned, to be taken into consideration in order to make the transformation process a success.
Firstly the university cannot operate without an adequate infrastructure and apparently building up the infrastructure would depend on the support from the donor community.
Secondly there is also need for the university to get members of staff who are committed to doing research and consultancy. Research and consultancy run the University.
Thirdly the university would need the strong commitment of the government financially. For over 30 years the government has been committed and it has produced results.
A participant asked why no answers were being provided to some questions that had been raised concerning issues like the philosophy behind the corporate strategic plan.
The concept of PLC's and the question of reorganizing the University structures. It was answered that so far this a joint process of formulating a vision for the University and *no body> has the answers.
Document D: Program Outline, Report and Plan of Action. 
Asked about the possibility of coming up with some precise figures in the planning of the programs activities. Such as planning for the infrastructure.
Maintained that the success of the program will depend on the financial volume available to the University. The government and the wider community should be able to indicate the proportion of the government budget that it commits to higher education and to the University in particular.
Challenged the Department of Economics to try to develop a formular or a mechanism through which it will make it possible to show the cost of doing something as opposed to the cost of not doing it.
Reiterated the need for having a big thrust of support for some areas including the Sciences. Enrolment in the Sciences is currently decreasing so there is need for more support. It is high time also that the University started thinking in terms of North-South relationship. There is need to think in terms of investing into higher education because there are countries which are investing in higher education.
Suggested that the strategy that should be adopted in order for the University to cross the bridge is to do more with the little that is available while waiting for the enabling environment to grow and develop.
Closing 
The closing ceremony was performed by the Chancellor of the University of Dar es Salaam, His Excellency Ambassador Paul Bomani. In his Closing Speech the Chancellor promised and assured the University to devote its energy and experience toward the well-being of the University despite what has been said about his appointment.
He reiterated the role of the University as that of producing first class graduates who will professionally and competently manage the Tanzanian economy in the  pubic><+_public> as well as the private sector. Hence urged the University to produce job-creators rather than job-seekers.
Appealed to the University Management and Leadership to motivate teachers by creating conducive environment for the task of teaching, research and consultancy.
The task of mobilization of resources to support the transformation process is a vital one. The University should try to work out this as soon as possible.
Cautioned that during this transformation process the values of our society are also be questioned and tested. Tanzania should maintain her sense of Justice and fair play. The best place where these can be inculcated, he suggested, is in the home and educational institutions thus the University should be in the forefront.
Ambassador Bomani encouraged the practice of broad base participation and involvement of as many people as possible in the affairs of the University through - public speakers "Human interaction is essential in solving problems." 

