<I>
Now you stand up ?
Tell me what is this ?
Bamboo 
This ?
Uh cotton 
Sit down 
How are these two things prepared ?
By 
With the help of what ?
Bamboo 
Bamboo isn't it ?
And also with the help of the means of 
means of production
What is the means of production ?
How they are prepared ?
 Bamboos with the help of bamboos as
already told
But how ?
With the help of what ?
Teacher with machine machines 
Teacher no teacher with the help of hand 
 hands 
 With the help of hand hands 
 
 With the help of hand hands 
 
And these ?
Teacher 
These these
With the help of what ?
Machines 
So these things are prepared with the help of 
machine machines and these with the help of hands
 Hands 
Now let us see to in today's 
 lesson how these this machine age
started ?
Machine age started and then how this industrial revolution
started ?
 Noise 
So let us take up now this industrial revolution BB- Work
Industrial revolution> 
First of all let us study the meaning of industrial revolution
Meaning BB-Work 
There are you see just say as you study 
 the world history 
Man has passed through several stages isn't it ?
In its economic growth he has passed through several stages 
First he was a wanderer moving from one place to
another place 
Then he started agricultural activities in then
he started having so many other activities isn't it ?
So that way why he he was engaging
himself in one or the other kind of activities ?
 Revolution 
 In in order to progress
In order to progress and in order to satisfy his needs 
isn't it ?
In the primitive stage he used to have only stones 
Only stones were at his disposal isn't it ?
So he was using the stones and preparing instruments out of
it 
You know how he made fire as you know by friction and everything
you know
And the other weapons also he made out of stones
And then in the agricultural stage he started making use of
wood
Wooden plough and wooden instruments he started preparing 
Understood no ?
So why he prepared all those things ?
In order to satisfy his needs 
 Needs 
That was his prime necessity
Satisfying his needs was his prime necessity 
 Needs 
As the time passed his needs increased 
There is a va vast difference
between the needs of the man in the past and needs of the man in
the present age 
Our present man man's needs
are vast unlimited
But whereas in the past they had only limited needs 
As he has thinking capacity you know that man is an
 a thinking animal
With the help of his thinking capa 
capacity he started finding out new things in 
 inventions and discoveries
He started inventing new things and discovering new lands
 and other things 
So that way he progressed well 
So in the eighteenth century in some parts of the world
Let us uh refer to those parts later on
Some parts of the world they started using this 
 these machines 
They started preparing machines 
New inventions and they are specially machines they started
 you know that 
You may be having a little idea about that 
What type of machines and all were produced 
But if you just said the meaning of the industry here
Industry means even prior to eighteenth century there were
industries isn't it ?
There were industries and they were producing so many things
 One one example of the same kind this
basket and this these steel cups 
 I have now here
 Cups 
They used to prepare cups not of steel but of 
bronze copper gold silver
They used to prepare no 
Even that can also be called as industry 
Understood ?
What I'm telling you are getting the point no ?
Yes teacher
But yet this industrial revolution which started in the
eighteenth century was completly different from that of the previous idea of
industry 
 Industry the meaning literal meaning
If you just referred to the dictionary it will show you that 
industry is nothing but making useful goods out of raw materials 
Whereas this industrial revolution is completely different 
It increased the production 
New inventions were made
 It is the production was on a 
large scale 
Not only that it changed the pattern of the society 
Way of life of the people was completely changed 
Understood no ?
 you have studied
The meaning of the revolution you know
Complete change in the way of life of the people 
 So in this industrial revolution changed
the life of the people completely
Society itself was changed 
Did you understand ?
That is the meaning of here industrial revolution 
Change in the means means 
and in process of production 
So now let this industrial revolution is uh not a
sudden movement
It didn't occur within a fortnight or within one
 a month or within two months
 It's gradual process 
In the eighteenth century it started 
In the eighteenth century it started and slowly 
it spread all over the world 
First it started in England then it spread to other parts
Even now also industrial revolution is not complete 
In India and China the industrial revolution started in
nineteenth century 
Whereas in African countries it has started just now 
In some of the African countries it has started just now
That means even now also the process of industrial revolution is
going on
It is not complete 
Some countries like England America and all no ? they
have achieved full progress Understood ? as far as industrial
development is concerned 
Now next topic 
Factors favouring an industrial revolution 
Some eight points are there
Eight factors which generally favour an industrial revolution
First one is growing demand for products BB-Work 
Increasing trade and discovery of new markets 
You know prior to industrial revolution 
In the twentieth century only these two countries America
 Russia is disintegrated now
U S S R is disintegrated 
But we will talk about we can talk about 
 those Russia and uh America 
 They they become poor
I mean uh superpowers 
But prior to that in sixteen seventy medieval period 
Britain was superpower like 
You can't call it super though but it is was 
 the strongest politically stable country in the whole world 
Britain 
And it had control ov over 
 several parts of the world
It has had colonies no ? all
over the world 
Our India was also one of the colony of the Britishers 
And they were successful in all these continent Asia
Africa and European countries
They acquired so many territories so many colonies were
 under them
They were powerful 
So there the industrial revolution started first 
As they were having colonies as well there was increasing
demand for products 
You know their colonial policy you know the
Britishers colonial policy 
They didn't allow any industries or any progress to occur in a
colonial state 
 That's why in the colonies there was increasing
demand for products 
Finished product and as much usable goods 
Then increasing trade also
As they had so many colonies they were having increase
 increased trade also with the with those
 colonies
Then discovery of new markets 
They were not happy with whatever they were having 
 they were have going for more and more colonies 
Who are going for more and more colonies ?
England 
 European country espece European
countries especially Britain 
 Britain 
Then second factor that favoured the industrial revolution is
 the need to change the productive process 
Prior to industrial revolution they used to prepare the goods with
the help of hands 
You know ?
In order to prepare the small one small 
basket they need needed more than one hour no
 ?
Yes 
But this type of sturdier ones cups 
steel cups 
 They can be they can prepare or 
 we can manufacturing we can manufacture this type of
cups more than thousands 
They can produce with the help of machine isn't it ?
So that way the wasting waste of time
they were planning to have such a machine which produced more things
within limited time 
So that way what happened is need to change the productive
process start 
They wanted to change the product the means
of production 
Next the third is discoveries and inventions 
These discoveries
You know the difference between discoveries and inventions ?
I think so 
Can you tell me the what is the difference between the
inventions and discoveries ?
Inventions means uh inventing a completely new thing and
discovery means to discover uh a land
To find out the land which is already existing
No
Not known
 Known 
It is already existing but unknown to the rest of the world
That is discovery
Invention means ?
It is no just like which what was not
at all there there and it is found that is invented that
we call as inventions 
 There 
 Inventions 
Then next is sit down this discovery is you know
In eighth standard you have studied about the geographical
discovery
So many lands were uh land routes and lands
were found out by great sailors like Vasco de-Gama 
Megallan and so many other sailors you have studied all this
 De-Gama 
And inventions for the invention is as far
as inventions are concerned they found out new machines 
That we are going to study in detail in the next chapter again 
So that way discovery and inventions also should be there
That also favours industrial revolution
Next fourth factor is capital needed for producing machines
See in order to have a factory or a an 
industry you need a lot of money not in thousands in 
crores in lakhs and in crores 
we need isn't it ?
So that poor country too for the poor
country it was not possible to accumulate that much money 
So only a few countries like England were accumulating
capital on large scale
So that was capital capital means money that is 
also one of the important factor that favoured the industrial revolution 
Next fifth one 
An atmosphere conducive to the freedom of thought 
If you are have one example I'll
 give you
If I just scold you and beat you and if I make you only whatever I
am asking you you must learn I am whatever 
I am dictating you that only you must write and only you
that you think you have to study
If I tell like that then I am curbing down your capacity
to think
You won't think then you will become only copycats 
There is no work
There is no opportunity for your uh uhm intelligence
Understood no ?
To show your intelligence there is no scope only 
So whereas if free atmosphere is given then you will come with
new ideas no ?
So that will lead you in some of the countries that is
specially England there where it started first
Industrial revolution first statred first in England no ?
They had free atmosphere that is democratic atmosphere they
had 
 This democratic atmos because of this
atmosphere they could think freely and they could find out new
things and they could invent new machines and all that 
Sixth one is availability of coal and iron 
In order to have industry we have two essential factors
first one is iron then the second one 
 coal 
 Iron 
 Coal 
With the help of iron you can make so many things
Machines and other articles you know and then
steel can also be made with the with the help of
iron 
Then coal coal is also equally
essential 
For what ?
Advani ?
He is not attentive noise 
I am asking you coal is also essential in industrial development
How is it essential ?
And how is it useful ?
What is coal you know ?
 Kolsa 
Uhm what type of kolsa ?
 Dagadi 
 Dagadi kolsa it is called as you know in
 Marathi 
 Yes 
Yes ?
Yes use ?
For producing thermal energy 
For heating the iron iron 
particles in
 That is that is that means for
generating N H thermal energy it is called as 
So in order to run the machines power is essential no ?
Power is essential so that power is can be
 obtained by heating the coal
Run with the help of the coal
We can obtain the power to run the machines so that these two
things were also available in England 
 Let's have a skilled labour to handle a machine
If you have visited any factories factory 
 you have visited any factory or uh industry 
They have so many divisions like like uh 
 welding moulding dyeing they fitting this
that
So many you no ?
So that way there will be so many departments like 
To handle this each department they should be 
have skilled labours who are having some technical know-how
regarding that paticular department 
That is essential 
Otherwise it will be like sambar daba 
In one daba only all things are kept no
 that way only one person only handling all the things that 
means there is no excellence
You won't expect any excellence in that 
So for each ever whichever one field
only for example if you take welding and you will become perfect in that
particular field 
