<I>
Good morning children 
Today we are going to do the lesson The Missing Mail
 
What is the name of the lesson ?
 The missing mail 
 The missing mail 
Can you understand anything about the title of the story ?
Missing mail 
What do you understand by that ?
What is missing mail ?
Mail means what ? Yes ?
Train alright 
What is the other meaning of mail ?
Yes ?
 Inaudible 
Letter very good 
Mail you know mail saying they say which carries the
mail van and all that which carries letters to the the station
So here The missing mail means the letter that
has not been delivered 
Are you able to follow this ?
The letter that has not been delivered 
And now you tell me the personalities of the post man is
going to play a part isn't it ?
If the post man is very rude he doesn't listen to you he
throws your letters at that time how do you feel about him ?
He is a bit rude impolite doesn't talk to you nicely 
and the other one who talks to you in a very nice manner
Do you find any difference between these two persons ?
Ah Devyani can you tell ?
Teacher we can't with a person who is not polite and uh
Yes yes 
If the person is very courteous polite then we feel like
talking to him 
If he is rather very rude and arrogant that time you don't feel
like talking to the person 
Similarly when you go to a doctor a doctor who listens to your
suffering your troubles and all that with a patient hearing he gives
you and he talks to you in a very nice manner half of your troubles
are over isn't it ?
And suppose a doctor is there he talks to you in a very bad
manner 
I mean he doesn't talk to you much he doesn't inquire much
about your suffering and all that how do you feel ?
Which doctor are you going to visit frequently ?
The one who is going to talk to you in a very nice manner
 listens to you and pays attention to what is 
what are your problems and he tries to find a solution to
that 
So here in the present lesson present story we are
going to come across Thanappa the postman of the village and let us see
 how he deals with the people there how much he has I mean he
has uh he has identified himself with the people living in this village
Each and everyone he knows by their names and he identifies
himself with their troubles sufferings and everything and gives
them advice when it is required 
Now the story goes like this 
All of you look into your book The teacher reads 
Though his beat covered Vinayak Mudali Street and it's
 four parallel roads it took him nearly six hours before he
finished his round and returned to the head office in Market Road to
deliver accounts 
He allowed himself to get mixed up with the fortunes of the
persons to whom he was carrying letters 
At Number Thirteen Kabir Street lived the man who had
come halfway up the road to ask for a letter for so many years now
Thanappa had been had seen him as a
youngster and had watched him day by day greying on the pyol
 sitting there and hoping for a big prize to come his way
 through solving crossword puzzles 
 No prize yet he announced to him everyday 
 But don't be disheartened 
 Your interest has been delayed this month somehow
 he said to another 
 Your son at Hyderabad has written again madam
How many children has he now ? The teacher
explains 
Could you follow a little bit of this postman named Thanappa
 ?
Now let us see though his beat covered Vinayak Mudali Street
The name of the street in which he had to deliver the letters
to the various people 
So here it took him nearly six hours only one street 
 living the people living there he had to deliver the letters but
how many hours did it take for him ?
 Six hours 
 Six hours to deliver the letters 
Can you tell me what he does in those six hours ?
Why so much time he is taking ?
Why does he take so much time ?
Why ?
What is the matter with him he can just throw the letter and
come back but what does he do while delivering the letters ?
Dhanya ?
Teacher he A few words 
Yes he inquires about their welfare he ask them about
their problems and all that and he tries to find a solution to their 
problems 
 That's why the work which is to be finished within one
hour is taking him six hours to complete 
So here he allowed himself to get mixed up with the
fortunes of the persons 
What do you understand by the phrase get mixed up
with ?
 What's the meaning of this phrase ?
Kanchan can you tell the meaning ?
 A few words 
No what does he do ?
Means uh what meaning are you getting by that ?
With the fortunes of the persons to whom he was carrying
letters 
What do you mean by that ?
He mixed up with
 He's very what is it ?
He mixed up with the villagers
Means he has got intimate contact with them 
He knows very well what are the problems and that's 
why if anybody is hoping for a money order or anybody is 
wants a prize or anybody anybody wants a suitable match for his daughter
Like that he knows each and everyone's problems and he
identifies himself with all their uh whatever they want with all all
their things is identifying and that's why the writer says that
 he mixed up with the fortunes of the people 
And now the particular man whom he is talking now is about
living in Thirteen Kabir Street and this man Thanappa had been
seeing right as a child 
He knew him and this man today is an old man who is now
having a marriageable age daughter who is to get married and
now this man is eagerly trying for a match to his daughter 
So here he says the man was sitting on a pyol 
 Pyol means a carridor in front of the house
 and this man is a little bit inactive you can say throughout
the day he will be sitting there and trying to solve the crossword
puzzle 
What is a crossword puzzle ?
Have you seen it ?
Do you ever tried to solve it ?
You get in Sunday magazines and all that magazine sections you
are having everyday in The Hindustan Times and
 Statesman in the last page you have it isn't it ?
So this man is very busy trying to solve it but up till
now he was not successful and he could not get a prize 
What does Thanappa say to him ?
He says no prize yet 
Mallika ?
That way when he passes the postman passes through that way 
the man eagerly looks up at him why ?
Because he is expecting a prize 
He wishes that Thanappa should intimate him that he had won
the crossword puzzle for that week or month and he is going to get a
prize 
But Thanappa says No prize yet 
 You haven't won a prize 
But don't be disheartened 
Disheartened means Don't be disappointed 
Yes student name 
Disappointed
Yes very good 
Disheartened means Don't lose heart don't lose
courage have the will power try try like that and one day you
are going to be successful 
 Your interest has been delayed this month somehow 
he said to another 
Now another first he has gone to another house to deliver a letter
 and there the man is expecting some interest and he consoles him
that his interest has been delayed a little bit but it is going to be
added to the and soon he is going to receive it 
And then to the third one he says Your son at
Hyderabad has written again madam how many children has he now
 ?
He says to another lady Your son has written a letter
from Hyderabad and now he enquires about your welfare 
 The teacher reads 
 I did not know that you had applied for this 
Madras job you haven't cared to tell me!
It doesn't matter 
When I bring you your appointment order you must feed
 feed me with coconut payasam 
 The teacher explains 
And now here is another person who had applied for an
interview 
He informed him that he had got selected and he has got
the appointment order to him and he says you have to give me feast 
because I've brought good news for you 
So like that each and every person very intimately he
knows what are their problems and he finds the solutions and through
the letters which he is delivering he expects that they are getting
someting good 
Something good is going to happen to them The teacher
reads 
And at each of their places he stops for nearly half an
hour especially if anyone received money order he just settle
down quite nicely with his bags and bundles spread about him and
would not rise till he gathered an idea of how and where every
 rupee was going The teacher explains 
You see the concern of this postman 
He talks to the person if a person gets a money order he
does not quickly deliver the money and get it signed the form 
and leave the place 
He would sit down along with his bag and baggage he will
talk to the person enquires him about the expenditure which is going
to do with that money and he fears that ensures that each 
rupee is going to be spent in a fruitful way 
It is not being wasted 
Are you able to follow this point all of you ?
How intimately how much personal interest he is taking in the
affairs of each and everyone and how much he is concerned about the
expenditure of that person the way how he is going to spend the money 
which he had delivered just now through money order 
Whether it is being done the expenditure in a fruitful manner 
or it is going to be a waste that he finds out from that person 
and gets satisfaction only when he sees that it is spent in the right
manner The teacher reads 
If it was a hot day he sometimes asked for a tumbler of
buttermilk The teacher explains 
When it is very hot that time he would ask for a glass
of buttermilk The teacher reads and sat down to enjoy it 
Everybody liked him on his beat 
He was a part and parcel of their existence their hopes 
aspirations and activities The teacher explains 
So the people living in that particular village this
postman Thanappa is just like a member of their family 
Are you able to understand ?
Why ?
Because unlike the other postman of today nowadays what do
you find a very rude they don't bother about what you have
received 
Whether it is a bad news or good news nobody bothers about it
But here he would go and sit with them talk with them
 listen to their problems and assured them and give them advice
 regarding what is to be done 
So what type of a postman is Thanappa ?
A very caring affectionate kind polite type of man
Shall I continue sir ? Addressed to someone who is
recording the teacher's lesson 
Now look here The teacher reads 
Of all his contacts the one with which he was most intimately
bound up was Number Ten Vinayak Mudali Street 
Ramanujam was a senior clerk in the Revenue Division Office
 and Thanappa had carried letters to that address for over a
generation now The teacher explains 
And now the pa particular 
person who is going to be the hero of our story is Mr Ramanujam
Where is he working ?
He is working as clerk
He is working 
Kanchan ?
He is working as senior clerk
Yes he is a senior clerk in the Revenue Office 
Sit down please 
And now The teacher reads 
His earliest association with Ramanujam was years and
years ago 
 Ramanujam's wife was away in the village 
A card arrived for Ramanujam 
Thanappa as was his custom glanced to it at the
sorting table itself and the moment he was ready to start out went
straight to Vinayak Mudali Street though in the ordinary course 
over hundred and fifty addresses preceded it 
He went straight to Ramanujam's house knocked on the
door and shouted postman sir postman 
When Ramanujam opened it he said Give me a handful
of sugar before I give you this card 
Happy father !
After all these years of prayers !
Don't complain that it is a daughter 
Daughters are God's gifts you know ...
Kamakshi - lovely name ! The teacher explains 
And now we find he is associating himself with the 
happiness of Ramanujam 
Ramanujam is blessed with a daughter and Thanappa had come
to deliver the news that he has become a father 
A daughter has been born to him and he assured him that 
 dau daughter is born so he should not
feel sad because according to the our Hindu custom people
are not happy when a girl is born in the family because all that
trouble to get her married the large sum of dowry that is to be
paid 
Dowry you know what is it ? 
