<I>
Well we will be discussing today the lesson that
I have already started
Do you know the lesson that I am going to discuss to
 today 
Malefactor Malefactor
Malefactor that's right that's right
And I do hope that by now all of you might have read the lesson
 and understood the contents of it too 
Right ?
The first question that we are going to raise today for discussion
 is that do you justify the title of the story ?
Do you justify the title of the story ?
I mean you ?
Would you ?
 What's your opinion ?
Sir the chapter raise the sir Denis is not not 
 actually actually a criminal criminal but uh like
 he uh does the he does uh he opens the
screw unknowingly
Right he doesn't know that it is really a crime 
Actually he does it unknowingly 
So what you mean that he is not a criminal one ?
No he isn't
Right 
Yes please what do you have to say ?
That the title Malefactor doesn'tjustify the uh
 doesn't justify on Denis because he is not a
criminal and he doesn't uh commit the act knowingly
He just uh does it unknowingly and tells the judge also
that he had done and doesn't hide anything like a a professional
criminal
Okay if we turn the pages of our text we will find that he
knows he does know that unscrewing of the nuts may lead to the rail
accident 
If you see the line you will find he confesses that 
we know that it may lead to the train accident that's why we don't
unscrew all the nuts we unscrew only few 
Sir he doesn't say that we know that accident will occur
as a result so he says that we know that the nut holds the railway track
Right
Sir he says that nuts cannot cause an accident
No not that one
But he does he does know that if we unscrew all the nuts
 it may lead to train accident causing the loss of life and
property 
He does know 
What are the other clues by that you can justify the title ?
You can't say that here whether he is a criminal or not
 noise 
Sir first thing he said that he was a very poor man
Yes
It was when that he said you can't find lead or nail 
uh uh on the street or you have to buy that ah so he was
 a very poor man
So he drills hole into pluck out nut from the track
 Ah 
Right 
Perhaps you would mean to say that while judging him as a
criminal we must see his situation too 
The circumstances he is pressed by 
We find that he is such a poor man that he is not in a
position to buy the other thing to use as sinker as he is
pleading again and again that I do it I did unscrew the nuts only to
 use them as sinkers 
Perhaps his financial condition is not so that he may buy the 
other thing or substitute of the nut 
Isn't so ?
Anything else that you have to say ?
Yes ? noise 
Anything ?
You wanted to tell something ?
No 
Then what else you have to say ?
Is there any other clue whereby you can prove that he is not a
criminal ?
The one thing that you have clarified is that it is the 
demand of the circumstances or he is pressed by the circumstances that's
 why he unscrewed the nuts
Anything else ?
The criminal was not an educated 
He is not an educated one
Educated man and even he doesn't know anything about the
 track anything that it can cause accident by plucking out of the lines
Right 
May be accepted 
Sir lot of whole society are unscrewing the nut but 
but an individual cannot be termed say that he has unscrewed the nut
 so rules of the society is also there
 So 
Right whole society means the gentry 
There is not only the Denis alone 
when but other people of the community are also doing the
same thing 
Sir he doesn't hide the name of anyone but he tells two or
three names more to the judge
Right
This shows that he was not a criminal 
But one thing is there suppose if the majority of the
people are doing the same thing you how can you say that 
it's not a crime ?
Can you ?
If majority of the people do the same work does it means
uh file any logic or thereby can you say that yes it is not a crime
because the large number of people are doing so 
So how can we accept this one that because not only Denis but other
fellows are also doing 
Other members of the community are also doing that's why
 it's not a very serious crime 
It is a 
Sir it is a crime 
It is a ?
Crime 
If it is a crime then you might be justifying the punishment
too given to him
Yes sir 
Denis does qualify as a criminal with one more reason because
 the law says that if the committer does the crime knowingly
And so he did it do it knowingly 
Right
It was stated in the law panel code one zero eight 
Means the gravity of the punishment should also take care
of whether something is done knowingly 
What is the intention of the person doing a particular offence
 committing a crime intention of the mind should also be uh
taken care of 
So was there any intention like that one ?
No 
Was there any bad intention ?
No sir
No 
So we can say if there was no any bad intention like rail
accident or other things like then he must not be given that
much severe punishment 
He should not be levelled as a criminal 
Why ?
Because he did it without knowing 
So if we sum up the things we can say first of all that it
is the circumstances it is his financial condition that made him
to do commit the crime 
Second thing is that his intention is not bad
He is doing it unknowingly 
There is no any bad intention of causing the rail accident
 causing the loss of life and property no intention
Anything else ?
On the ground of that you can say that he doesn't deserve that much
severe punishment Noise 
Is there any more points ?
Can you recollect ?
Yes can you recollect ? noise 
Can you ?
No 
No 
Anybody else in the class who has any more points 
thereby who can say that the title of the story Malefactor is not
appropriate one ?
Yes ?
The society around him made the circumstances that
they made him to do that 
But the role and role and of the society 
That is the ?
The whole world of the crime world the they 
depend on society around us 
How the society is responsible ?
Because he says that they the wise men and the
uh men of the village do the same work 
Right 
It means that from the childhood he is made to do the
same thing 
Now that we have already taken that is more number of the
people do the same thing that is an offence
We cannot say that it is not an offence 
Sit down please sit down 
Yes anything else ? noise 
So in your view the title of the story is not appropriate one
 ?
No sir
Can you think of can you substitute any other appropriate
title to the story ?
If this one is not appropriate can we give any
appropriate title to the story ?
Can you think of any new title to the story ?
Sir poverty is great crime 
Poverty create crime 
Poverty ?
Create crime 
Poverty creates crime and why only poverty ignorance is
also with that or both are coincided very often ?
Sir sir innocent criminal 
Innocent criminal 
Then the title suggested is suggested one is Innocent
Criminal 
What is your re reaction to it ?
Sir criminal criminal cannot be
called innocent no 
The criminal cannot be called called 
innocent then he is a criminal sir but sir he is a
 Then 
Sir but sir he is innocent 
Sir he is little bit innocent 
Yes sit down 
Okay that a criminal cannot be but you know that one
of the merit of the title is to create interest in the story too 
If it is an innocent criminal then perhaps you will be
interested to learn that how an innocent man became a criminal 
It may create some interest too 
Can you think of similar title ?
On the same line can you find any better one ?
Okay if not according to you what type of punishment does he
deserve ? noises 
In case 
 A few words 
In case he is not a criminal one but he has done
something wrong you know 
Knowingly unknowingly whatever is there but he has done
something wrong and he has been caught red handed too 
What type of punishment would you like to accord to him ?
Yes ?
He has to reveal the plan causing the liability that 
that they are but not the individual particular in society to be taught
as has given me a one word to seek a as if they had
deliberately done then a few words noise 
 Then 
Then one thing perhaps you want to say that we will take
this one as a feedback and educate the society
Tell the people that this is something very wrong they
must not do 
He must be instructed like that one and should be released or
any other punishment ?
He should be 
Yes please ?
He should be let off with a warning or at the most he should
be imprison for one or two months 
He should be given either the warning or ?
Imprisonment at the most for one or two months not too
much 
Right 
Not more than one or two months 
Anything else ?
Vishal ?
You know the what is the target what is the aim of the
punishment ?
Just to bring improvement and check the further crime 
Just to bring the improvement as well as to check the further
crime too 
So one is that he should be given either a very light
punishment one or two months imprisonment with some warning
Another one is suggesting that the fellow should be left 
and government or the agency should take it as a feedback and tell
or educate the other people regarding the offence that they should
not do it 
Right ?
They should be told they should be uh educated that it
is something wrong very wrong it may lead to severe punishment and they
should not do 
Right mass awakening
Anything else ?
Anything else in the capacity of a magistrate that you would
like to ?
Sir the presence of that many people in the village as
petty according to famous man also do uh make that uh net so he wants
more nut in that
So it's mass awareness is needed to educate all the
village and warn them that they had to do no more plucking of the nut
from track site
Right right I do agree 
I do agree with you that such an ingnorant man such a
 simple honest man should not be given a very severe punishment
Atleast one or two chances must be given to him to improve himself
And the other members of the community should also be 
shown that this is something punishable and they must leave it 
I think that such honest fellows if given the chance they will
improve they will leave such crimes 
They will realise the gravity of the crime 
Understood ?
You know till the very end Denis doesn't understand that
what for he is being sent to prison 
Till the very end he doesn't understand that what for he is being
sent to the prison 
Right ?
Why ?
He is punished he is uh given a very severe punishment
 but till the very end he doesn't know that what is his crime 
He doesn't know he couldn't understand it
Why ?
Or if I repeat the question like that one what are the
crimes in his eyes ?
According to him what are the crimes ?
He thinks that 
He thinks that unscrewing a nut from the rail track is
not a crime at all 
Then what are the crimes in his eyes ?
Yes ?
That his brother was not paying the tax 
He thinks that 
His brother was not paying the tax
And he is being sent to for his brother's crime
 right 
He thinks that those who fight they must be punished and he hasn't
 fought with anyone that's why he doesn't deserve 
Right 
Yes ?
Denis uh says stealing
Stealing is punishable 
So don't you think that he has stolen a nut ?
 Noise 
Don't you think ?
 Noise 
He has done unknowingly 
He did it unknowingly 
Right 
He is not stealing the tax 
He
Not stealing tax
 Accha one who doesn't pay the taxes he
deserves the punishment 
Right ?
Sir coming for judgement
What ?
Sir there is one thing that he never a few words 
Please sit down 
Yes ?
So I think stealing non-payment of the taxes and he
thinks that he has not stolen anything 
He has not fought with anyone and he has paid his taxes
So he doesn't deserve the punishment punishment
Understood ?
 That's why till the very end he couldn't convince himself
 that he is a criminal 
Though he was found criminal in the eyes of the law but he
couldn't convince himself that he is a criminal 
Okay 
So is there any confusion regarding the story ?
 Punishment 
No sir 
Or is there any other questions that you've got in
your mind ?
Anyone any sort of the questions or doubts ? 
